INTERNATIONAL ADVANCED LEVEL

ACCOUNTING

SPECIFICATION

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary in Accounting (XAC11)
Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Level in Accounting (YAC11)
First teaching September 2015
First examination from June 2016
First certification from August 2016 (International Advanced Subsidiary) and
August 2017 (International Advanced Level)
Issue 2
Edexcel, BTEC and LCCI qualifications
Edexcel, BTEC and LCCI qualifications are awarded by Pearson, the UK's largest awarding
body offering academic and vocational qualifications that are globally recognised and
benchmarked. For further information, please visit our qualification website at
qualifications.pearson.com. Alternatively, you can get in touch with us using the details on
our contact us page at qualifications.pearson.com/contactus
About Pearson
Pearson is the world's leading learning company, with 35,000 employees in more than
70 countries working to help people of all ages to make measurable progress in their lives
through learning. We put the learner at the centre of everything we do, because wherever
learning flourishes, so do people. Find out more about how we can help you and your
learners at qualifications.pearson.com

Acknowledgements
This specification has been produced by Pearson on the basis of consultation with teachers,
examiners, consultants and other interested parties. Pearson would like to thank all those
who contributed their time and expertise to the specification's development.

References to third party material made in this specification are made in good faith. Pearson
does not endorse, approve or accept responsibility for the content of materials, which may
be subject to change, or any opinions expressed therein. (Material may include textbooks,
journals, magazines and other publications and websites.)

All information in this specification is correct at time of going to publication.

ISBN 978 1 446 95129 3
All the material in this publication is copyright
© Pearson Education Limited 2018
Summary of Pearson Edexcel International Advanced
Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting Specification
Issue 2 changes

Summary of changes made between previous issue and this current                 Page
issue                                                                           number

The `About this specification' section has been corrected to show that          2
assessment opportunities are January, June and October                          8, 9
                                                                                13, 14
The `Content and assessment overview' section has been updated to show
the assessment opportunities are January, June and October                      23
                                                                                25
Content in Unit 1: 1.3 Financial statements of organisations has been           38, 39
updated for 1.3.1, 1.3.7, 1.3.8 and 1.3.9 to say `Statements of profit or loss  and 40
and other comprehensive income...' rather than `Statements of                   41
comprehensive income...'.

Assessment objective weightings have been amended

Resitting of units section has been updated to reflect the correct rules

Appendix 6: Glossary of International Accounting Standards (IAS)
terminology has been updated to use the correct terminology. These changes
have been reflected in the content for Unit 1 and Unit 2.

In Appendix 7: Formulae the first formula has been amended to say `1 Gross
Profit as a Percentage of revenue (sales margin) = (Gross Profit/Revenue) x
100' rather than `Gross Profit as a Percentage of revenue = (Gross
Profit/Revenue) x 100'.

If you need further information on these changes or what they mean, contact us via our
wbsite at: qualifications.pearson.com/en/support/contact-us.html.
Contents

About this specification                                          2

Why choose Edexcel qualifications?                                4

Why choose Pearson Edexcel International Advanced

Subsidiary/Advanced Level qualifications in Accounting?           5

Supporting you in planning and implementing these qualifications 6

Qualification at a glance                                         7

Accounting content                                                10

Unit 1: The Accounting System and Costing                         11

Unit 2: Corporate and Management Accounting                       16

Assessment information                                            22

Administration and general information                            25

Entries and resitting of units                                    25

Access arrangements, reasonable adjustments, special

consideration and malpractice                                     25

Awarding and reporting                                            27

Student recruitment and progression                               28

Appendices                                                        29

Appendix 1: Codes                                                 30

Appendix 2: Pearson World Class Qualification design principles   31

Appendix 3: Transferable skills                                   33

Appendix 4: Level 3 Extended Project qualification                35

Appendix 5: Glossary                                              37

Appendix 6: Glossary of International Accounting Standards (IAS)

terminology                                                       38

Appendix 7: Formulae                                              41

Appendix 8: Command words used in examinations                    43

Appendix 9: Use of calculators                                    44
About this specification

The Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary in Accounting and the Pearson
Edexcel International Advanced Level in Accounting are part of a suite of International
Advanced Level qualifications offered by Pearson.
These qualifications are not accredited or regulated by any UK regulatory body.

Key features

This specification includes the following key features.

Structure
The Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Level in Accounting is a modular qualification.
However, the Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary in Accounting is not a
modular qualification. The Advanced Subsidiary can be claimed on completion of the
International Advanced Subsidiary (IAS) unit. The International Advanced Level can be
claimed on completion of both units (IAS and IA2 units).

Content
The content is engaging and relevant to international customers using International
Accounting Standard (IAS) terminology and requiring presentation in International Standard
format.

Assessment
100% external assessment, with January, June and October assessment opportunities.

Approach
This qualification has been designed using Pearson's Efficacy Framework, developed in line
with world-class principles.
Students who successfully complete these qualifications will have a good knowledge and
understanding of the principles, concepts and techniques of accounting. These qualifications
provide a secure foundation for further study. They also provide a worthwhile course for
students who will end their study at the International Advanced Subsidiary or International
Advanced Level stage.

Specification updates

This specification is Issue 2 and is valid for first teaching from September 2015. If there are
any significant changes to the specification, we will inform centres in writing. Changes will
also be posted on our website.
For more information please visit qualifications.pearson.com

2  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

   - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Using this specification

This specification gives teachers guidance and encourages effective delivery of these
qualifications. The following information will help you get the most out of the content
and guidance.
Compulsory content: as a minimum, all the bulleted content must be taught.
Teachers should deliver the qualification using a good range of examples to support the
assessment of the unit content.
Students need to demonstrate knowledge of technical language where required.
Depth and breadth of content: teachers should use the full range of content and all the
assessment objectives given in the assessment information section.

Qualification aims and objectives

The aims and objectives of these qualifications are to enable students to develop:
· an understanding of the importance of effective accounting information systems and an

    awareness of their limitations through a critical consideration of current financial issues
    and modern business practices
· an understanding of the purposes, principles, concepts and techniques of accounting
· transferable skills of numeracy, communication, ICT, application, presentation,
    interpretation, analysis and evaluation in an accounting context
· an appreciation of the effects of economic, legal, ethical, social, environmental and
    technological influences on accounting decisions
· methodical and critical thought which would serve as an end in itself, as well as a basis
    for further study of accounting and other subjects.

Qualification abbreviations used in this specification

The following abbreviations appear in this specification:
International Advanced Subsidiary - IAS
International A2 - IA2 (the additional content required for an IAL)
International Advanced Level - IAL.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -                 3

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Why choose Edexcel qualifications?

Pearson - the world's largest education company

Edexcel academic qualifications are from Pearson, the UK's largest awarding organisation.
With over 3.4 million students studying our academic and vocational qualifications
worldwide, we offer internationally recognised qualifications to schools, colleges and
employers globally.

Pearson is recognised as the world's largest education company, allowing us to drive
innovation and provide comprehensive support for Edexcel students to acquire the
knowledge and skills they need for progression in study, work and life.

A heritage you can trust

The background to Pearson becoming the UK's largest awarding organisation began in 1836,
when a royal charter gave the University of London its first powers to conduct exams and
confer degrees on its students. With over 150 years of international education experience,
Edexcel qualifications have a firm academic foundation, built on the traditions and rigour
associated with Britain's educational system.

To find out more about our Edexcel heritage please visit our website:
qualifications.pearson.com/en/about-us/about-pearson/our-history

Results you can trust

Pearson's leading online marking technology has been shown to produce exceptionally
reliable results, demonstrating that at every stage, Edexcel qualifications maintain the
highest standards.

Developed to Pearson's world-class qualifications standards

Pearson's world-class standards mean that all Edexcel qualifications are developed to be
rigorous, demanding, inclusive and empowering. We work collaboratively with a panel of
educational thought-leaders and assessment experts to ensure that Edexcel qualifications
are globally relevant, represent world-class best practice and maintain a consistent
standard.

For more information on the world-class qualification process and principles please go to
Appendix 2: Pearson World Class Qualification design principles or visit our website:
uk.pearson.com/world-class-qualifications.

4  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

   - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Why choose Pearson Edexcel International
Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level qualifications
in Accounting?

We have listened to feedback from all parts of the international school subject community,
including a large number of teachers. We have made changes that will engage international
learners and give them skills that will support their progression to further study of
Accounting and to a wide range of other subjects.

Key qualification features

Structure - two units comprising one IAS unit and one IA2 unit.

Content: Updated, engaging and relevant to international students using International
Accounting Standard (IAS) terminology and requiring presentation in International Standard
format.

Approach - These qualifications were designed using Pearson's Efficacy Framework. They
were developed in line with World-Class Design principles giving students who successfully
complete the qualifications the opportunity to acquire a good knowledge and understanding
of the principles, concepts and techniques of accounting. These qualifications provide a
secure foundation for further study. They also provide a worthwhile course for students who
will end their study at the International Advanced Subsidiary or International Advanced
Level stage.

Assessment: 100% external assessment with examinations available in January, June and
October series.

Clear and straightforward question papers - our question papers are clear and
accessible for students of all ability ranges. Our mark schemes are straightforward so that
the assessment requirements are clear.

Consistent and updated command word taxonomy - we have updated the command
words used in the assessment and applied a consistent mark tariff.

Broad and deep development of learners' skills - we designed the International
Advanced Level qualifications to extend learners' knowledge by broadening and deepening
skills, for example learners will have an opportunity to develop:

Decision-making - students must have been able to carry out problem solving, analysis and
interpretation

Ethics - the whole of Accounting involves presenting a true and fair representation of
information

Inter-personal skills - required to obtain data, work within a team, discuss outcomes and
make recommendations.

Progression - International Advanced Level qualifications enable successful progression to
undergraduate studies, further education and work.

Increased level of support - Getting Started Guide with scheme of work, exemplar
answers with commentaries Student Book and training. Additional planned resources include
online digital resources.

Our Accounting sits within our wider subject offer for Business, Economics and Commerce.

More information is available on our website (qualifications.pearson.com) on the
Edexcel International Advanced Level pages.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -  5

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Supporting you in planning and implementing
these qualifications

Planning
· Our Getting Started Guide gives you an overview of the Pearson Edexcel International

    Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting qualifications to help you understand
    the changes to content and assessment, and what these changes mean for you and your
    students. This guide incorporates the scheme of work.

Teaching and learning
Our skills maps will highlight opportunities to develop:
· Decision-making processes making use of problem solving, analysis and interpretation

    skills
· Ethics as the whole of Accounting involves presenting a true and fair representation of

    available information
· Inter-personal skills which are required to obtain data, work within a team, discuss

    outcomes and make recommendations
· Free teaching and learning materials including marked exemplar scripts with examiner

    commentaries to give indications of standards required to achieve marks across levels.

Preparing for exams
We also provide a range of resources to help you prepare your students for the
assessments, including:
· examiner reports following each examination series
· example marked scripts with examiner commentaries.

ResultsPlus
ResultsPlus provides the most detailed analysis available of your students' examination
performance. It can help you identify the topics and skills where further learning would
benefit your students.

Training events
In addition to online training, we host a series of training events each year for teachers to
deepen their understanding of our qualifications.

Get help and support
Our subject advisor service will ensure that you receive help and guidance from us. Click
here to sign up to receive qualification updates and product and service news.

6  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

   - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Qualification at a glance

Qualification overview

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary in Accounting
This qualification consists of one externally-examined unit.
The International Advanced Subsidiary is the first half of the International Advanced Level
qualification and consists of one IAS unit, Unit 1. This qualification may be awarded as a
discrete qualification or may contribute 50 per cent towards the International Advanced
Level qualification.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Level in Accounting
This qualification consists of two externally-examined units.
The International Advanced Level consists of the one IAS unit (Unit 1) plus one IA2 unit
(Unit 2). Students wishing to take the International Advanced Level must, therefore,
complete all two units.

Course of study

The structure of these qualifications allows teachers to construct a course of study that can
be taught and assessed as either:
· a linear course assessed in its entirety at the end for the Pearson Edexcel International

    Advanced Subsidiary or Advanced Level in Accounting; or
· distinct modules of teaching and learning with related units of assessment taken at

    appropriate stages during the course for the Pearson Edexcel International Advanced
    Level in Accounting.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -               7

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Content and assessment overview

IAS                                                            *Unit code:
Unit 1: The Accounting System and Costing                      WAC11/01

Externally assessed                                            100% of      50% of
Written examination: 3 hours                                   the total    the total
Availability: January, June and October                        IAS          IAL

First assessment: June 2016

200 marks

Content overview

Students will be assessed on their knowledge, understanding and skills of accounting
systems and costing.

This unit is divided into six topics:

1. Principles of accounting and double entry bookkeeping

2. Control procedures

3. Financial statements of organisations

4. Introduction to costing

5. Analysis of accounting statements

6. Social and ethical accounting.

Assessment overview

The paper is split into two sections. Students must complete:

· Section A - Two compulsory 55-mark, multi-part questions based on given data.

· Section B - Three optional 30-mark, multi-part questions from a choice of four.

· There will be a resource booklet that accompanies the examination paper.

8                           Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

                             - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
IA2                                                                               *Unit code:
Unit 2: Corporate and Management Accounting                                       WAC12/01

Externally assessed                                                               100% of    50% of
Written examination: 3 hours                                                      the total  the total
Availability: January, June and October                                           IA2        IAL

First assessment: June 2017

200 marks

Content overview

Students will be assessed on their knowledge and understanding of and skills in corporate
and management accounting.

This unit is divided into nine topics:

1. Limited companies

2. Investment ratios

3. Statement of cash flows

4. Budgeting

5. Standard costing

6. Project appraisal

7. Break-even analysis

8. Marginal costing and absorption costing
9. Information and communication technology (ICT) in accounting.

Assessment overview

The paper is split into two sections. Students must complete:

· Section A - Two compulsory 55-mark, multi-part questions based on given data.

· Section B - Three optional 30-mark, multi-part questions from a choice of four.

· There will be a resource booklet that accompanies the examination paper.

*See Appendix 1: Codes for a description of this code and all other codes relevant to
  these qualifications.

Calculators

Calculators may be used in the examinations. Please see Appendix 9: Use of calculators.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -                        9

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Accounting content

    Unit 1: The Accounting System and Costing    11

    Unit 2: Corporate and Management Accounting  16

10  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

    - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Unit 1: The Accounting System and Costing

 IAS compulsory unit
 Externally assessed

Unit description

                  Students will be assessed on their knowledge and understanding
                  of, and skills in, accounting systems and costing.
                  This unit is divided into six topics:
                  1. Principles of accounting and double entry bookkeeping
                  2. Control procedures
                  3. Financial statements of organisations
                  4. Introduction to costing
                  5. Analysis of accounting statements
                  6. Social and ethical accounting.

Assessment information

                                         · First assessment: June 2016.

                                         · The assessment is 3 hours.
                                         · The assessment is out of 200 marks.
                                         · The paper is split into two sections. Students must complete:

                                             o Section A - Two compulsory 55-mark, multi-part questions
                                                  based on given data.

                                             o Section B - Three optional 30-mark, multi-part questions
                                                  from a choice of four.

                                         · There will be a resource booklet that accompanies the
                                             examination paper.

                                         · Calculators may be used in the examination. Please see
                                             Appendix 9: Use of calculators.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -  11

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Unit content

1.1 Principles of accounting and double entry bookkeeping

What students need to learn

Role and purpose of  1.1.1   The role of accounting as a need to record, analyse and
accounting           1.1.2   communicate accounting information to users.
Double entry system  1.1.3
                     1.1.4   The purpose of accounting information as an aid to the
Accounting concepts  1.1.5   management of a business.
and conventions      1.1.6
                             Transaction recording in books of account.
Capital expenditure  1.1.7
and revenue                  Transaction recording in books of prime entry.
expenditure          1.1.8
Non-current asset    1.1.9   End of period transfers and adjustments.
depreciation         1.1.10
                     1.1.11  Ledger accounts to create and maintain allowance for
                     1.1.12  irrecoverable debts, including calculation from a schedule
                             of trade receivables.
                     1.1.13
                     1.1.14  The use of information and communication technology
                     1.1.15  (ICT) in recording transactions and preparing
                     1.1.16  reconciliations (control accounts, trial balance) and
                     1.1.17  financial statements. Note: candidates will not be
                     1.1.18  examined on the use of specific applications or software
                     1.1.19  packages.
                     1.1.20
                             The concepts of going concern, prudence, accruals and
                             consistency.

                             The concepts and conventions of historic cost, materiality,
                             money measurement, realisation and business entity.

                             The use of International Accounting Standards (IAS).

                             Capital expenditure and revenue expenditure.

                             The correct accounting treatment of capital expenditure
                             and revenue expenditure with reference to relevant
                             accounting concepts.

                             The causes of depreciation of non-current assets.

                             The reasons for charging depreciation on non-current
                             assets.

                             The depreciation of non-current assets using reducing
                             balance, straight line and revaluation methods.

                             Ledger accounts for non-current assets and provisions of
                             depreciation.

                             The effect on profit of different methods of depreciation.

                             The effect on profit of a change in the method of
                             depreciation.

                             Disposal and disposal accounts for non-current assets.

                             Schedule of non-current assets.

12                   Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

                     - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
1.2 Control procedures

What students need to learn

Trial balance         1.2.1  The trial balance.
Control accounts      1.2.2  The limitations of a trial balance.
                      1.2.3  Control accounts as an independent check on receivable
Correction of errors         and payable ledgers.
                      1.2.4  Control accounts for trade receivable and trade payable
                             ledgers.
                      1.2.5  The errors that do and do not affect the balancing of the
                             trial balance.
                      1.2.6  Journal entries to correct errors.
                      1.2.7  The suspense account.
                      1.2.8  Statements of revised profit.
                      1.2.9  Correction of errors in control accounts.

1.3 Financial statements of organisations

What students need to learn

Financial statements  1.3.1  Statements of profit or loss (and other comprehensive
of sole traders              income) showing the gross profit and profit for the year.
                      1.3.2
Year-end              1.3.3  Statements of financial position.
adjustments           1.3.4
                      1.3.5  Prepaid or accrued income or expenditure.
                      1.3.6
                             The nature and use of provisions.
Departmental          1.3.7
records                      Provisions for depreciation.

Incomplete records 1.3.8     Irrecoverable debts and allowances for irrecoverable
                             debts.

                             Statements of profit or loss (and other comprehensive
                             income) in columnar format to show departmental
                             profits/losses.

                             Statements of profit or loss (and other comprehensive
                             income) and statements of financial position from
                             incomplete records and information.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -  13

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Partnership            1.3.9   Statements of profit or loss (and other comprehensive
                       1.3.10  income) and appropriation accounts.
Clubs and non-profit-  1.3.11
making                 1.3.12  Partners' current accounts and capital accounts on a fixed
organisations                  or floating basis.
                       1.3.13
Manufacturers          1.3.14  Use of the Partnership Agreement in appropriation of
                       1.3.15  profit/loss.
                       1.3.16
                       1.3.17  Provisions of Section 24 of the Partnership Act 1890 in
                       1.3.18  relation to partners' salaries, division of profit or loss,
                       1.3.19  interest on loans, capital and drawings.
                       1.3.20
                       1.3.21  Introduction (or retirement) of a partner, including the
                       1.3.22  introduction of assets and treatment of goodwill.

                               Receipts and payments accounts.

                               Trading accounts of different activities.

                               Subscription accounts.

                               Long-term/ life membership.

                               Losses of inventory or cash.

                               Income and expenditure accounts and statements of
                               financial position.

                               Manufacturing accounts with subheadings for prime cost,
                               factory overhead, work in progress and production cost.

                               Allocation and apportionment of costs between products
                               and functions.

                               Unrealised profit resulting from goods manufactured.

1.4 Introduction to costing

What students need to learn

Valuation of           1.4.1   Characteristics of Last In First Out (LIFO), First In First
inventory                      Out (FIFO) and Net Realisable Value (NRV) as methods of
                       1.4.2   inventory valuation.
Labour costs           1.4.3
                               Inventory valuations using FIFO and LIFO on a perpetual
                       1.4.4   and periodic basis.
                       1.4.5
                       1.4.6   The effect of different methods of inventory valuation on
                               profit and the statements of financial position inventory
                               value.

                               Labour productivity.

                               Methods of remuneration, day work, piecework, individual
                               and group bonus schemes.

                               Employer cost and employee earnings under different
                               remuneration methods.

14                     Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

                       - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Overhead costs     1.4.7   The characteristics of overhead expenses, fixed, semi-
Job costing                fixed, semi-variable and variable.
                   1.4.8   Allocation, apportionment and absorption of overheads.
                   1.4.9   Apportionment and continuous allotment of service
                           departments.
                   1.4.10  Machine hour and labour hour rates per hour.
                   1.4.11  Over absorption and under absorption of overheads.
                   1.4.12  Characteristics of job costing.
                   1.4.13  Job costing of batch production and customer orders.

1.5 Analysis of accounting statements

What students need to learn

Ratios             1.5.1   Ratios:
                           · gross profit as a percentage of revenue
                   1.5.2   · percentage mark-up
                   1.5.3   · profit for the year as a percentage of revenue
                           · return on capital employed (percentage)
                           · non-current assets to revenue
                           · inventory turnover
                           · current ratio
                           · liquid (acid test) ratio
                           · trade payables payment period
                           · trade receivables collection period.
                           The profitability, liquidity and use of asset ratios in
                           appraising sole traders and partnership financial
                           statements.
                           Use of ratios to make future financial projections.

1.6 Social and ethical accounting

What students need to learn

Social accounting  1.6.1   The implications of accounting decisions in the social
Ethics                     context of the local community, environment, workforce,
                   1.6.2   health and safety, and use of natural resources.
                   1.6.3
                   1.6.4   Significance of non-financial factors.

                           Effect of accounting decisions on different stakeholders.

                           Ethics in accounting analysis and decision making.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -    15

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Unit 2: Corporate and Management Accounting

 IA2 compulsory unit
 Externally assessed

Unit description

                  Students will be assessed on their knowledge and understanding
                  of and skills in accounting systems and costing.
                  The unit is divided into nine topics:
                  1. Limited companies
                  2. Investment ratios
                  3. Statement of cash flows
                  4. Budgeting
                  5. Standard costing
                  6. Project appraisal
                  7. Break-even analysis
                  8. Marginal costing and absorption costing
                  9. Information and communication technology (ICT) in

                       accounting.

Assessment information

                                         · First assessment: June 2017.
                                         · The assessment is 3 hours.
                                         · The assessment is out of 200 marks.

                                         · The paper is split into two sections. Students must complete:
                                             o Section A - Two compulsory 55-mark, multi-part questions
                                                  based on given data.

                                             o Section B - Three optional 30-mark, multi-part questions
                                                  from a choice of four.

                                         · There will be a resource booklet that accompanies the
                                             examination paper.

                                         · Calculators may be used in the examination. Please see
                                             Appendix 9: Use of calculators.

16                Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

                  - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Unit content

2.1 Limited companies

What students need to learn

Financial statements  2.1.1   Financial statements in accordance with International
Capital structure             Accounting Standards (IAS) 1:
                      2.1.2   · statement of comprehensive income
                      2.1.3   · statement of changes in equity
                      2.1.4   · statement of financial position.
                      2.1.5   The role of the auditor and content and importance of the
                              Auditors' Report and the Directors' Report, including the
                      2.1.6   role of the auditor in corporate governance.
                      2.1.7   The importance of disclosing continuing and discontinued
                      2.1.8   activities and the significance of exceptional items.
                              Capital reserves and revenue reserves.
                      2.1.9   How the following reserves are created and utilised:
                      2.1.10  · retained earnings
                      2.1.11  · general
                              · foreign exchange
                              · share premium
                              · revaluation
                              · capital redemption.
                              Authorised, issued and called-up share capital.
                              Rights issues and bonus issues.
                              Ledger accounts and journal entries to record the issue of
                              new shares, bonus issues and rights issues.
                              Note: Candidates will not be examined on the forfeiture of
                              shares.
                              The features of shares and debentures.
                              Capital gearing and its implications.
                              The creation and features of provisions.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -  17

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Merger or purchase    2.1.12  Journal entries and ledger accounts for the purchase of a
of limited companies          limited company or the merger of two companies:
                      2.1.13  · revaluation account
                      2.1.14  · realisation account
                      2.1.15  · sundry shareholders' account
                              · acquisition account
                              · purchase of a limited company using shares or cash
                              · merger of limited companies using shares or cash.
                              Calculation of purchase price of a company:
                              revaluation of assets and liabilities
                              Statement of financial position of a limited company
                              following purchase of or the merger with another
                              company.
                              The calculation and correct treatment of goodwill.

2.2 Investment ratios

What students need to learn

Investment ratios     2.2.1   Investment ratios:
                      Note:   · earnings per share
                              · price earnings
                              · dividend per share
                              · dividend yield.
                              · dividend cover
                              · return on capital employed.
                              Candidates will need to be familiar with ratios relating to
                              profitability, liquidity and use of assets tested in Unit 1.

2.3 Statement of cash flows

What students need to learn

Statement of cash     2.3.1   Statement of cash flows in accordance with International
flows                 2.3.2   Accounting Standard (IAS) 7.

                              The importance of liquidity to a company.

18                    Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

                      - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
2.4 Budgeting

What students need to learn

Budgeting         2.4.1  The role of budgeting as a management tool for planning,
                  2.4.2  forecasting and control.
                  2.4.3  The process of budget preparation.
                         Budgets for:
                  2.4.4  · revenue
                  2.4.5  · production
                         · purchases
                         · inventory
                         · trade receivables
                         · trade payables
                         · capital
                         · cash.
                         Budgeted statement of comprehensive income and
                         statement of financial position.
                         Flexible budgets for variations in activity level.

2.5 Standard costing

What students need to learn

Standard costing  2.5.1  The purpose of standard costing.
                  2.5.2  The stages in establishing a standard costing system
                  2.5.3  collection of data from accounting records.
                         Variances:
                  2.5.4  · material variances (price, usage and total)
                  2.5.5  · labour variances (rate, efficiency and total)
                  2.5.6  · total fixed overhead variance
                         · total variable overhead variance.
                         Possible reasons for variances.
                         Possible interrelationships between variances.
                         The principle of management by exception to variance
                         analysis.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -  19

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
2.6 Project appraisal

What students need to learn

Project appraisal    2.6.1  The application of:
                     2.6.2  · net present value
                            · weighted average cost of capital
                            · profitability index
                            · internal rate of return.
                            The application of the non-discounted methods:
                            average rate of return (accounting rate of return)
                            payback period.

2.7 Break-even analysis

What students need to learn

Break-even analysis  2.7.1  Calculation of fixed, semi-fixed, semi-variable, variable
                            costs, selling price and net profit.
                     2.7.2  Contribution, break-even point and margin of safety.
                     2.7.3  Graphical representation of break-even analysis:
                            · fixed costs
                            · total costs
                            · sales revenue
                            · break-even point
                            · margin of safety
                            · angle of incidence
                            · area of profit or loss.

20                   Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

                     - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
2.8 Marginal costing and absorption costing

What students need to learn

Marginal costing and  2.8.1  The concepts of marginal costing and absorption costing.
absorption costing    2.8.2
                             The advantages and disadvantages of marginal costing
                      2.8.3  and absorption costing.

                      2.8.4  The valuation of inventory using marginal costing and
                             absorption costing.
                      2.8.5
                      2.8.6  Marginal costing in decision making for:

                             · the acceptance/refusal of new orders

                             · make or buy decisions

                             the continuation/discontinuation of a service or
                             manufacture of a product.

                             Profit and loss statements using marginal costing and
                             absorption costing.

                             The preferred course of action when there are limiting
                             factors.

2.9 Information and communication technology (ICT) in
       accounting

What students need to learn

Information and       2.9.1  The uses of ICT in accounting in relation to costing
communication         2.9.2  products or services and the provision of management
technology (ICT) in          information:
accounting
                             · spreadsheets, e.g. for budgeting

                             · software packages available for producing invoices,
                                   debtors list, payroll, tax returns etc.

                             · Electronic Point of Sale for a stock control system.

                             Advantages and disadvantages of using ICT in
                             accounting, including audit trail, financial aspects,
                             technical aspects, human aspects.

                             Note: Candidates will not be examined on the use of
                             specific applications or software packages.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -     21

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Assessment information

Assessment requirements

The Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary in Accounting consist of one
externally-examined unit.

The Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Level in Accounting consists of two externally-
examined units.

Students must complete all assessments.

Please see the Assessment availability and first award section for information on when the
assessment for each unit will be available from.

Unit               IAS or  Assessment information               Number of raw
Unit 1: The        IA2                                          marks allocated
Accounting System  IAS     · The assessment is 3 hours.         in the unit
and Costing                                                     200 marks
                   IA2     · The paper is split into two
Unit 2: Corporate              sections. Students must          200 marks
and Management                 complete:
Accounting
                               o Section A - Two compulsory
                                   55-mark, multi-part
                                   questions based on given
                                   data.

                               o Section B - Three optional
                                   30-mark, multi-part
                                   questions from a choice of
                                   four.

                           · There will be a resource booklet
                               that accompanies the
                               examination paper.

                           · Calculators may be used in the
                               examination. Please see
                               Appendix 9: Use of calculators.

                           · Same as Unit 1

Sample assessment materials

Sample papers and mark schemes can be found in the Pearson Edexcel International
Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting Sample Assessment Materials (SAMs)
document.

A full list of command words that will be used in the assessments can be found in
Appendix 8: Command words used in examinations.

22                 Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

                   - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Assessment objectives and weightings

                                                                                  % in   % in   % in
                                                                                   IAS   IA2     IAL
                                                                                    30
AO1  Demonstrate knowledge of accounting procedures                                      24-25 27-28
AO2  and techniques and an understanding of the                                   43-44
     principles and concepts upon which they are based                                   41-42 42-43
AO3                                                                                 17
AO4  Select and apply knowledge and understanding of                              9-10   23-24 20-21
     accounting procedures, techniques, concepts and
     principles to a variety of accounting situations.                                   10-11  10
     Present accounting information in an appropriate
     format

     Analyse financial information, interpret financial data
     and information and communicate reasoning,
     showing understanding

     Evaluate financial and non-financial evidence and
     make informed recommendations and decisions

Relationship of assessment objectives to unit for the
International Advanced Subsidiary qualification

Unit number                  Assessment objective

                     AO1     AO2                                           AO3            AO4
                                                                                         9-10%
Unit 1               30%     43-44%                                        17%           9-10%
                     30%     43-44%                                        17%
Total for
International
Advanced Subsidiary

Relationship of assessment objectives to units for the
International Advanced Level qualification

Unit number                  Assessment objective

                     AO1     AO2                                                  AO3           AO4
                                                                                                4-5%
Unit 1                 15%   21-22%                                         8-9%                5-6%
                     12-13%  20-21%                                        11-12%               10%
Unit 2               27-28%  42-43%                                        20-21%

Total for
International
Advanced Level

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -                      23

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Assessment availability and first award

Unit       June 2016  October  January   June 2017  October
                        2016     2017                 2017
1                                                        
2                                                        
IAS award                                                
IAL award                                                

From June 2017, all two units will be assessed in January, June and October for the
lifetime of the qualifications.

From June 2017 IAL and IAS will both be awarded in January, June and October for the
lifetime of the qualifications.

24         Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

                      - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Administration and general information

Entries and resitting of units

Entries

Details of how to enter students for the examinations for these qualifications can be found in
our International Information Manual. A copy is made available to all examinations officers
and is available on our website, qualifications.pearson.com.

Resitting of units

Students can resit any unit irrespective of whether the qualification is to be cashed in. If a
student resits a unit more than once, only the better of the two most recent attempts of that
unit will be available for aggregation to a qualification grade. Please refer to the
Entry, Aggregation and Certification document on our website:
qualifications.pearson.com/IAL-entry-certification-procedures.

Access arrangements, reasonable adjustments,
special consideration and malpractice

Equality and fairness are central to our work. Our equality policy requires all students to
have equal opportunity to access our qualifications and assessments, and our qualifications
to be awarded in a way that is fair to every student.
We are committed to making sure that:
· students with a protected characteristic (as defined by the UK Equality Act 2010) are not,

    when they are undertaking one of our qualifications, disadvantaged in comparison to
    students who do not share that characteristic
· all students achieve the recognition they deserve for undertaking a qualification and that
    this achievement can be compared fairly to the achievement of their peers.

Language of assessment

Assessment of these qualifications will be available in English only. All student work must be
in English.
We recommend that students are able to read and write in English at Level B2 of the
Common European Framework of Reference for Languages.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -  25

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Access arrangements

Access arrangements are agreed before an assessment. They allow students with special
educational needs, disabilities or temporary injuries to:

· access the assessment

· show what they know and can do without changing the demands of the assessment.

The intention behind an access arrangement is to meet the particular needs of an individual
student with a disability without affecting the integrity of the assessment. Access
arrangements are the principal way in which awarding bodies comply with the duty under
the Equality Act 2010 to make `reasonable adjustments'.

Access arrangements should always be processed at the start of the course. Students will
then know what is available and have the access arrangement(s) in place for assessment.

Reasonable adjustments

The Equality Act 2010 requires an awarding organisation to make reasonable adjustments
where a student with a disability would be at a substantial disadvantage in undertaking an
assessment. The awarding organisation is required to take reasonable steps to overcome
that disadvantage.

A reasonable adjustment for a particular student may be unique to that individual and
therefore might not be in the list of available access arrangements.

Whether an adjustment will be considered reasonable will depend on a number of factors,
including:

· the needs of the student with the disability

· the effectiveness of the adjustment

· the cost of the adjustment; and

· the likely impact of the adjustment on the student with the disability and other students.

An adjustment will not be approved if it involves unreasonable costs to the awarding
organisation, timeframes or affects the security or integrity of the assessment. This is
because the adjustment is not `reasonable'.

Special consideration

Special consideration is a post-examination adjustment to a student's mark or grade to
reflect temporary injury, illness or other indisposition at the time of the
examination/assessment, which has had, or is reasonably likely to have had, a material
effect on a candidate's ability to take an assessment or demonstrate their level of attainment
in an assessment.

Further information

Please see our website for further information about how to apply for access arrangements
and special consideration.

For further information about access arrangements, reasonable adjustments and special
consideration please refer to the JCQ website: www.jcq.org.uk.

26  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

    - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Candidate malpractice

Candidate malpractice refers to any act by a candidate that compromises or seeks to
compromise the process of assessment or which undermines the integrity of the
qualifications or the validity of results/certificates.

Candidate malpractice in examinations must be reported to Pearson using a JCQ Form M1
(available at www.jcq.org.uk/exams-office/malpractice). The form can be emailed to
pqsmalpractice@pearson.com or posted to: Investigations Team, Pearson, 190 High
Holborn, London, WC1V 7BH. Please provide as much information and supporting
documentation as possible. Note that the final decision regarding appropriate sanctions lies
with Pearson.

Failure to report malpractice constitutes staff or centre malpractice.

Staff/centre malpractice

Staff and centre malpractice includes both deliberate malpractice and maladministration of
our qualifications. As with candidate malpractice, staff and centre malpractice is any act that
compromises or seeks to compromise the process of assessment or which undermines the
integrity of the qualifications or the validity of results/certificates.

All cases of suspected staff malpractice and maladministration must be reported
immediately, before any investigation is undertaken by the centre, to Pearson on a JCQ
Form M2(a) (available at www.jcq.org.uk/exams-office/malpractice).

The form, supporting documentation and as much information as possible can be emailed to
pqsmalpractice@pearson.com or posted to: Investigations Team, Pearson, 190 High
Holborn, London, WC1V 7BH. Note that the final decision regarding appropriate sanctions
lies with Pearson.

Failure to report malpractice itself constitutes malpractice.

More-detailed guidance on malpractice can be found in the latest version of the document
JCQ General and vocational qualifications Suspected Malpractice in Examinations and
Assessments, available at www.jcq.org.uk/exams-office/malpractice.

Awarding and reporting

The Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary in Accounting will be graded on a
five-grade scale from A to E. The Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Level in
Accounting will be graded on a six-point scale A* to E. Individual unit results will be
reported. Only Unit 1 will contribute to the International Advanced Subsidiary grade. Both
units will contribute to the International Advanced Level grade.

The first certification opportunity for the Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary
in Accounting will be in August 2016. The first certification opportunity for the Pearson
Edexcel International Advanced Level in Accounting will be in August 2017. A pass in an
International Advanced Subsidiary subject is indicated by one of the five grades A, B, C, D,
E, of which grade A is the highest and grade E the lowest. A pass in an International
Advanced Level subject is indicated by one of the six grades A*, A, B, C, D, E, of which
grade A* is the highest and grade E the lowest. Students whose level of achievement is
below the minimum judged by Pearson to be of sufficient standard to be recorded on a
certificate will receive an unclassified U result.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -  27

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Unit results

Students will receive a uniform mark between 0 and the maximum uniform mark for
each unit.

The uniform marks at each grade threshold for each unit are:

Units 1 and 2

Unit grade Maximum A B C D                                                              E
                            uniform mark                                              120

               300           240  210                         180          150

Qualification results

The minimum uniform marks required for each grade:

International Advanced Subsidiary (cash-in code: XAC11)

Qualification Maximum A B C                                                 D           E
grade          uniform mark                                                150        120

               300           240  210                         180

Students with a uniform mark in the range 0-119 will be Unclassified (U).

International Advanced Level (cash-in code: YAC11)

Qualification Maximum A B C D E
grade          uniform mark

               600           480  420                         360          300        240

Students with a uniform mark in the range 0-239 will be Unclassified (U).

To be awarded an A*, students will need to achieve an A for the International Advanced
Level qualification (at least 480 uniform marks) and at least 90% of the total uniform mark
available across the IA2 units combined (at least 270 uniform marks).

Student recruitment and progression

Pearson follows the JCQ policy concerning recruitment to our qualifications in that:
· they must be available to anyone who is capable of reaching the required standard
· they must be free from barriers that restrict access and progression
· equal opportunities exist for all students.

Prior learning and other requirements

Students who would benefit most from studying these qualifications are likely to have a
Level 2 qualification such as an International GCSE in Accounting at grades 9 to 4 or
A* to C.

Progression

These qualifications supports progression into further education, training or employment.

28                     Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

                       - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Appendices

Appendix 1: Codes                                                                 30

Appendix 2: Pearson World Class Qualification design principles                   31

Appendix 3: Transferable skills                                                   33

Appendix 4: Level 3 Extended Project qualification                                35

Appendix 5: Glossary                                                              37

Appendix 6: Glossary of International Accounting Standards (IAS)

terminology                                                                       38

Appendix 7: Formulae                                                              41

Appendix 8: Command words used in examinations                                    43

Appendix 9: Use of calculators                                                    44

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -  29

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Appendix 1: Codes

Type of code   Use of code                              Code
Unit codes                                              Unit 1: WAC11/01
               Each unit is assigned a unit code. This  Unit 2: WAC12/01
Cash in codes  unit code is used as an entry code to
               indicate that a student wishes to take   International Advanced
Entry codes    the assessment for that unit. Centres    Subsidiary - XAC11
               will need to use the entry codes only    International Advanced
               when entering students for their         Level - YAC11
               examination.
                                                        Please refer to the
               The cash-in code is used as an entry     Pearson Information
               code to aggregate the student's unit     Manual, available on
               scores to obtain the overall grade for   our website.
               the qualification. Centres will need to
               use the entry codes only when entering
               students for their qualification.

               The entry codes are used to:

               · enter a student for the assessment
                   of a unit

               · aggregate the student's unit scores
                   to obtain the overall grade for the
                   qualification.

30             Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

               - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Appendix 2: Pearson World Class Qualification
design principles

Pearson's World Class Qualification design principles mean that all Edexcel qualifications are
developed to be rigorous, demanding, inclusive and empowering.

We work collaboratively to gain approval from an external panel of educational
thought-leaders and assessment experts from across the globe. This is to ensure that
Edexcel qualifications are globally relevant, represent world-class best practice in
qualification and assessment design, maintain a consistent standard and support learner
progression in today's fast-changing world.

Pearson's Expert Panel for World-Class Qualifications is chaired by Sir Michael Barber, a
leading authority on education systems and reform. He is joined by a wide range of key
influencers with expertise in education and employability.

"I'm excited to be in a position to work with the global leaders in curriculum and assessment
to take a fresh look at what young people need to know and be able to do in the 21st
century, and to consider how we can give them the opportunity to access that sort of
education." Sir Michael Barber.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -  31

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Endorsement from Pearson's Expert Panel for World Class
Qualifications for the International Advanced Subsidiary
(IAS)/International Advanced Level (IAL) development process

December 2015

"We were chosen, either because of our expertise in the UK education system, or because of
our experience in reforming qualifications in other systems around the world as diverse as
Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia and a number of countries across Europe.

We have guided Pearson through what we judge to be a rigorous world class qualification
development process that has included, where appropriate:

· extensive international comparability of subject content against the highest-performing
    jurisdictions in the world

· benchmarking assessments against UK and overseas providers to ensure that they are at
    the right level of demand

· establishing External Subject Advisory Groups, drawing on independent subject-specific
    expertise to challenge and validate our qualifications.

Importantly, we have worked to ensure that the content and learning is future oriented, and
that the design has been guided by Pearson's Efficacy Framework. This is a structured,
evidenced process which means that learner outcomes have been at the heart of this
development throughout.

We understand that ultimately it is excellent teaching that is the key factor to a learner's
success in education but as a result of our work as a panel we are confident that we have
supported the development of Edexcel IAS and IAL qualifications that are outstanding for
their coherence, thoroughness and attention to detail and can be regarded as representing
world-class best practice."

Sir Michael Barber (Chair)                    Professor Lee Sing Kong
Chief Education Advisor, Pearson plc          Dean and Managing Director, National
                                              Institute of Education International,
Dr Peter Hill                                 Singapore
Former Chief Executive ACARA
Professor Jonathan Osborne                    Bahram Bekhradnia
Stanford University                           President, Higher Education Policy Institute

Professor Dr Ursula Renold                    Dame Sally Coates
Federal Institute of Technology, Switzerland  Director of Academies (South), United
Professor Janice Kay                          Learning Trust
Provost, University of Exeter
                                              Professor Bob Schwartz
Jason Holt                                    Harvard Graduate School of Education
CEO, Holts Group
                                              Jane Beine
                                              Head of Partner Development, John Lewis
                                              Partnership

All titles correct as at December 2015.

32  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

    - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Appendix 3: Transferable skills

The need for transferable skills

In recent years, higher-education institutions and employers have consistently flagged the
need for students to develop a range of transferable skills to enable them to respond with
confidence to the demands of undergraduate study and the world of work.

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) defines skills, or
competencies, as `the bundle of knowledge, attributes and capacities that can be learned
and that enable individuals to successfully and consistently perform an activity or task and
can be built upon and extended through learning.'[1]

To support the design of our qualifications, the Pearson Research Team selected and
evaluated seven global 21st-century skills frameworks. Following on from this process, we
identified the National Research Council's (NRC) framework [2] as the most evidence-based
and robust skills framework, and have used this as a basis for our adapted skills framework.

The framework includes cognitive, intrapersonal skills and interpersonal skills.

The NRC framework is included alongside literacy and numeracy skills.

The skills have been interpreted for this specification to ensure they are appropriate for the
subject. All of the skills listed are evident or accessible in the teaching, learning and/or
assessment of the qualifications. Some skills are directly assessed. Pearson materials will
support you in identifying these skills and developing these skills in students.

The table overleaf sets out the framework and gives an indication of the skills that can be
found in accounting and indicates the interpretation of the skill in this area. A full subject
interpretation of each skill, with mapping to show opportunities for student development is
given on the subject pages of our website: qualifications.pearson.com

1 OECD - Better Skills, Better Jobs, Better Lives (OECD Publishing, 2012)
2 Koenig, J. A. (2011) Assessing 21st Century Skills: Summary of a Workshop, (National Academies Press, 2011)

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -                               33

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
    Cognitive skills      Cognitive          · Critical thinking                    In order to make good decisions,
                          processes and      · Problem solving                      students will require a good level
    Intrapersonal skills  strategies         · Analysis                             of analysis, problem solving and
                                             · Reasoning/argumentation              interpretation.
    Interpersonal skills  Creativity         · Interpretation
                          Intellectual       · Decision making                      Developing an awareness of the
                          openness           · Adaptive learning                    ethical values in society and in
                                             · Executive function                   accounting. Accounting involves
                          Work ethic/        · Creativity                           presenting a true and fair
                          conscientiousness  · Innovation                           representation of the information.
                                             · Adaptability
                          Positive core      · Personal and social responsibility   Students are required to obtain
                          self-evaluation    · Continuous learning                  data, work within a team, discuss
                          Teamwork and       · Intellectual interest and curiosity  outcomes and make
                          collaboration      · Initiative                           recommendations
                                             · Self-direction
                          Leadership         · Responsibility
                                             · Perseverance
                                             · Productivity
                                             · Self-regulation (metacognition,

                                                  forethought, reflection)
                                             · Ethics
                                             · Integrity
                                             · Self-monitoring/self-

                                                  evaluation/self-reinforcement
                                             · Communication
                                             · Collaboration
                                             · Teamwork
                                             · Cooperation
                                             · Empathy/perspective taking
                                             · Negotiation
                                             · Responsibility
                                             · Assertive communication
                                             · Self-presentation

34                                           Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

                                             - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Appendix 4: Level 3 Extended Project qualification

What is the Extended Project?

The Extended Project is a standalone qualification that can be taken alongside International
Advanced Level (IAL) qualifications. It supports the development of independent learning
skills and helps to prepare students for their next step - whether that be higher education or
employment. The qualification:

· is recognised by higher education for the skills it develops

· is worth half of an International Advanced Level (IAL) qualification at grades A*-E

· carries UCAS points for university entry.

The Extended Project encourages students to develop skills in the following areas: research,
critical thinking, extended writing and project management. Students identify and agree a
topic area of their choice for in-depth study (which may or may not be related to an IAL
subject they are already studying), guided by their teacher.

Students can choose from one of four approaches to produce:

· a dissertation (for example an investigation based on predominately secondary research)

· an investigation/field study (for example a practical experiment)

· a performance (for example in music, drama or sport)

· an artefact (for example creating a sculpture in response to a client brief or solving an
    engineering problem).

The qualification is non-examination assessment based and students are assessed on the
skills of managing, planning and evaluating their project. Students will research their topic,
develop skills to review and evaluate the information, and then present the final outcome of
their project.

The Extended Project has 120 guided learning hours (GLH) consisting of a 40-GLH taught
element that includes teaching the technical skills (for example research skills) and an
80-GLH guided element that includes mentoring students through the project work. The
qualification is 100% internally assessed and externally moderated.

How to link the Extended Project with Accounting

The Extended Project creates the opportunity to develop transferable skills for progression to
higher education and to the workplace through the exploration of either an area of personal
interest or a topic of interest from within the accounting qualification content.

Through the Extended Project, students will develop skills that support their study of
accounting, including:

· conducting, organising and using research

· independent reading in the subject area

· planning, project management and time management

· defining a hypothesis to be tested in investigations or developing a design brief

· collecting, handling and interpreting data and evidence

· evaluating arguments and processes, including arguments in favour of alternative
    interpretations of data and evaluation of experimental methodology

· critical thinking.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -  35

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
In the context of the Extended Project, critical thinking refers to the ability to identify and
develop arguments for a point of view or hypothesis and to consider and respond to
alternative arguments. This supports the development of evaluative skills, through
evaluating accounting arguments and using qualitative and quantitative evidence to support
informed judgements and propose evidence-based solutions to accounting issues.

Types of Extended Project related to Accounting

Students may produce a dissertation on any topic that can be researched and argued, for
example:

· the impact of Information and communication technology (ICT) in accounting

· an investigation into the ease of Social and ethical accounting

The dissertation uses secondary research sources to provide a reasoned defence or a point
of view, with consideration of counter-arguments.

An alternative might be an investigative project or field study involving the collection of data
from primary research, for example:

· a study of the impact of Principles of accounting and double entry bookkeeping on a
    business

· a statistical survey of Limited companies

A field study might consider an issue that lends itself to primary research, for example an
investigation into the role of budgeting as a management tool for planning, forecasting and
control.

Using the Extended Project to support breadth and depth

In the Extended Project, students are assessed on the quality of the work they produce and
the skills they develop and demonstrate through completing this work. Students should
demonstrate that they have extended themselves in some significant way beyond what they
have been studying in accounting. Students can demonstrate extension in one or more
dimensions:

· deepening understanding - where a student explores a topic in greater depth than in
    the specification content.

· broadening skills - where a student learns a new skill. This might be learning how to
    design a website or learning a new statistical technique that can be used in the analysis of
    either primary or secondary data collected by the student

· widening perspectives - where the student's project spans different subjects. A
    student studying accounting with geography may wish to research the impact of tourism
    on a particular region or locality. A student studying accounting with mathematics may
    wish to use statistical techniques to analyse market data and research one aspect of a
    market in more detail.

A wide range of information to support the delivery and assessment of the Extended Project,
including the specification, teacher guidance for all aspects, an editable scheme of work and
exemplars for all four approaches, can be found on our website.

36  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

    - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Appendix 5: Glossary

Term                      Definition
Assessment objectives
                          The requirements that students need to meet to succeed in
External assessment       the qualification. Each assessment objective has a unique
International Advanced    focus, which is then targeted in examinations or coursework.
Subsidiary                Assessment objectives may be assessed individually or in
International Advanced    combination.
Level
International A2 (IA2)    An examination that is held at the same time and place in a
Linear                    global region.

Modular                   Abbreviated to IAS.

Raw marks                 Abbreviated to IAL.

Uniform Mark Scale (UMS)  The additional content required for an IAL.

Unit                      Linear qualifications have all assessments at the end of a
                          course of study. It is not possible to take one assessment
                          earlier in the course of study.

                          Modular qualifications contain units of assessment.
                          These units can be taken during the course of study.
                          The final qualification grade is worked out from the
                          combined unit results.

                          Raw marks are the actual marks that students achieve when
                          taking an assessment. When calculating an overall grade,
                          raw marks often need to be converted so that it is possible
                          to see the proportionate achievement of a student across all
                          units of study.

                          Student actual marks (or raw marks) will be converted into
                          a UMS mark so that it is possible to see the proportionate
                          result of a student. Two units may each be worth 25% of a
                          total qualification. The raw marks for each unit may differ,
                          but the uniform mark will be the same.

                          A modular qualification will be divided into a number of
                          units. Each unit will have its own assessment.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -  37

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Appendix 6: Glossary of International Accounting
Standards (IAS) terminology

The following is a glossary of the comparison between IAS (International Accounting
Standards) terminology and UK GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Practice in the UK)
terminology. Examiners will use the IAS terms throughout Unit 1 and Unit 2 and candidate
responses should use these terms.

IAS terminology                         Previously used UK GAAP terminology
Financial statements                    Final accounts

Statement of profit or loss and other   Trading and profit and loss account
comprehensive income
We will accept `Statement of Profit or  Sales
Loss' in examination answers            Purchases
Revenue                                 Raw materials
Purchases                               Work in progress
Raw materials                           Cost of goods sold
Work in progress                        Stock
Cost of sales                           Gross profit
Inventory                               Sundry expenses
Gross profit                            Bad debts
Other operating expenses                Provision for doubtful debts
Irrecoverable debts                     Sundry income
Allowance for irrecoverable debts       Interest receivable
Other operating income                  Interest payable
Finance income                          Net profit (loss)
Finance costs                           Profit/loss balance
Profit (or loss) for the year
Retained earnings

38                    Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

                      - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
IAS terminology                          Previously used UK GAAP terminology

Statement of changes in equity           Appropriation account (limited
(limited companies)                      companies)

Statement of financial position          Balance sheet

Non-current assets                       Fixed assets
Property                                 Land and buildings
Plant and equipment                      Plant and equipment
Investments                              Investments
Intangible assets                        Goodwill

Current assets                           Current assets
                                         Stock
Inventory                                Debtors
                                         Prepayments
Trade receivables

Other receivables

Cash and cash equivalents (limited
companies - Statement of cash flow,
IAS7)

Current liabilities                      Current liabilities/creditors: amounts
                                         due within 12 months
Trade payables
Other payables                           Creditors
Bank overdraft and loans (repayable      Accruals
within 12 months)                        Loans repayable within 12 months

Non-current liabilities                  Long-term liabilities/creditors:
                                         amounts falling due after 12 months
Bank (and other) loans (repayable after
12 months)                               Loans repayable after 12 months

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -  39

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
IAS terminology                                Previously used UK GAAP terminology

Capital (sole traders and                      Capital
partnerships)

Or

Equity (sole traders and partnerships)

Equity (limited companies)                     Share Capital

Statement of cash flows                        Cash flow statement

Control Accounts                               Sales ledger control account and
                                               purchases ledger control account
Trade receivables ledger control account
and a trade payables ledger control
account

Accounting ratios                              Gross profit as a percentage of revenue
Gross profit as a percentage of revenue

Profit for the year as a percentage of         Net profit margin
revenue

Return on capital employed (percentage)        Percentage return on capital employed
                                               Current ratio
Current (working capital) ratio                Quick (acid test) ratio

Quick (acid test) ratio or liquid (acid test)
ratio

Other terms                                    Stock take
Inventory count                                Net book value
Carrying value

40               Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

                           - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Appendix 7: Formulae

The formulae below will not be supplied in the examinations. Please note that a formula may
be applied in more than one section.

Profitability

1 Gross Profit as a Percentage of revenue (sales margin) = (Gross Profit/Revenue) x 100

2 Percentage Mark-up = (Gross Profit as a Percentage of revenue/cost of sales) x 100

3 Net Profit for the Year as a Percentage of Revenue = (Net Profit for the Year/Revenue)
     x 100

4 Return on Capital Employed (percentage) = (Net Profit Before Interest (NPBI)/Capital
     Employed) x 100

For a sole trader or partnership (Capital Employed = Capital + Non-current Liabilities
(NCL))

5 Return on Capital Employed (percentage) for Corporate Bodies = (Net Profit Before
     Interest (NPBI)/Capital Employed) x 100

For a Company (Capital Employed = Issued Shares + Reserves + Non-current Liabilities)

Liquidity

6 Current Ratio = Current Assets/Current Liabilities

7 Liquid Ratio (Acid Test) = (Current Assets - Inventory)/Current Liabilities

8 Rate of Inventory Turnover = Cost of Sales/Average Inventory (Times per
     Accounting Period)

9 Trade Payables Payment Period = (Trade Payables/Credit Purchases) x 365

10 Trade Receivables Collection Period = (Trade Receivables/Credit Sales) x 365

Use of assets

11 Revenue to Non-current Assets = Revenue/Non-current Assets

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -          41

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Investment

12 Gearing Ratio = (Fixed Cost Capital (Debt))/(Total Capital Employed (Debt + Equity))
     x 100

13 Earnings per Share = (Net Profit after Tax - Preference Share Dividend)/Number of
     Issued Ordinary Shares

14 Price Earnings Ratio = Market Price per Share/Earnings per Share

15 Dividend per Share = Total Ordinary Dividend Paid/Number of Issued Ordinary Shares

16 Dividend Yield = Dividend Paid per Share/Market Price of Share

17 Dividend Cover = Profit after Tax - Preference Dividends/Total Ordinary Dividend Paid

42  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

    - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Appendix 8: Command words used in examinations

The following table lists the command words used in the external assessments.

Command word  Definition
Calculate
Comment       This will involve working out a numerical problem using
Complete      mathematical processes and formulae, showing relevant
Define        working.
Evaluate
              The answer must include a simple statement based on the
Explain       scenario and also a summary of why/how that statement is
Identify      important to the scenario.
Prepare
Recommend     This requires the completion of a table or structure. This may
State         include a calculation which will then be required to fill the
              incomplete table/structure.

              To state the precise meaning of an accounting term and/or
              provide a description.

              This will involve reviewing information and then bringing it
              together to form a conclusion, drawing on evidence including
              strengths, weaknesses, alternative actions, relevant data or
              information. A supported judgement/decision will be reached in
              relation to its context.

              This requires a linked justification/exemplification of a point.

              This requires information to be selected from a range of
              possibilities, list or given stimulus.

              This will involve arranging financial information into a standard
              format.

              This will involve suggesting a solution/decision by reviewing
              information from a scenario and providing a
              justification/exemplification for that choice.

              This requires the recall of one or more pieces of information.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -  43

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
Appendix 9: Use of calculators

Students may use a calculator in assessments for these qualifications. Centres are
responsible for making sure that calculators used by their students meet the requirements
given in the table below.

Students must be familiar with the requirements before their assessments for these
qualifications.

Calculators must be:               Calculators must not:
· of a size suitable for use on a
                                   · be designed or adapted to offer any of these
    desk                               facilities:
· either battery or solar powered      o language translators
· free of lids, cases and covers       o symbolic algebraic manipulation
                                       o symbolic differentiation or integration
    that contain printed               o communication with other machines or the
    instructions or formulae.              internet

The candidate is responsible       · be borrowed from another candidate during an
for the following:                     examination for any reason*
· the calculator's power supply
· the calculator's working         · have retrievable information stored in them. This
                                       includes:
    condition                          o databanks
· clearing anything stored in the      o dictionaries
                                       o mathematical formulae
    calculator.                        o text.

*An invigilator may give a student a calculator.

Further information can be found in the JCQ documents Instructions for conducting
examinations and Information for candidates for written examinations, available at
www.jcq.org.uk/exams-office.

44  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting

    - Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
sb210918 Alfresco\International A Level\9781446951293_IAL_ACCOUNT_ISS2.DOCX.1-50/1

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Accounting -    45

Specification - Issue 2 - September 2018 © Pearson Education Limited 2018
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT EDEXCEL, BTEC OR LCCI QUALIFICATIONS
VISIT QUALIFICATIONS.PEARSON.COM

EDEXCEL IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF PEARSON EDUCATION LIMITED

PEARSON EDUCATION LIMITED. REGISTERED IN ENGLAND AND WALES NO. 872828
REGISTERED OFFICE: 80 STRAND, LONDON WC2R 0RL
VAT REG NO GB 278 537121

GETTY IMAGES: ALEX BELMONLINSKY
