INTERNATIONAL ADVANCED LEVEL
EDEXCEL INTERNATIONAL GCSE

BECUOSNINOMESICSS SPECIFICATION

SPECIFICATION Edexcel International GCSE in Economics (9-1) (4ET0)

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary in Business (XBS11)
 First examination June

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Level in Business (YBS11)
First teaching September 2018
First examination from January 2019
First certification from August 2019 (International Advanced Subsidiary) and August 2020 (International
Advanced Level)
Edexcel, BTEC and LCCI qualifications
Edexcel, BTEC and LCCI qualifications are awarded by Pearson, the UK's largest awarding
body offering academic and vocational qualifications that are globally recognised and
benchmarked. For further information, please visit our qualification website at
qualifications.pearson.com. Alternatively, you can get in touch with us using the details on
our contact us page at qualifications.pearson.com/contactus
About Pearson
Pearson is the world's leading learning company, with 35,000 employees in more than
70 countries working to help people of all ages to make measurable progress in their lives
through learning. We put the learner at the centre of everything we do, because wherever
learning flourishes, so do people. Find out more about how we can help you and your
learners at qualifications.pearson.com

Acknowledgements
This specification has been produced by Pearson on the basis of consultation with teachers,
examiners, consultants and other interested parties. Pearson would like to thank all those
who contributed their time and expertise to the specification's development.

References to third party material made in this specification are made in good faith. Pearson
does not endorse, approve or accept responsibility for the content of materials, which may
be subject to change, or any opinions expressed therein. (Material may include textbooks,
journals, magazines and other publications and websites.)

All information in this specification is correct at time of going to publication.

ISBN 978 1 4469 4957 3
All the material in this publication is copyright
© Pearson Education Limited 2017
Contents

About this specification                                         2

Why choose Edexcel qualifications?                               4

Why choose Pearson Edexcel International Advanced

Subsidiary/Advanced Level qualifications in Business?            5

Supporting you in planning and implementing these qualifications 7

Qualification at a glance                                        8

Business content                                                 11

Unit 1: Marketing and people                                     12

Unit 2: Managing business activities                             20

Unit 3: Business decisions and strategy                          26

Unit 4: Global business                                          33

Assessment information                                           38

Administration and general information                           41

Entries and resitting of units                                   41

Access arrangements, reasonable adjustments, special

consideration and malpractice                                    41

Awarding and reporting                                           43

Student recruitment and progression                              45

Appendices                                                       47

Appendix 1: Codes                                                48

Appendix 2: Pearson World Class Qualification design principles  49

Appendix 3: Transferable skills                                  51

Appendix 4: Level 3 Extended Project qualification               52

Appendix 5: Glossary                                             55

Appendix 6: Command words                                        56

Appendix 7: Quantitative skills                                  57

Appendix 8: Glossary of International Accounting Standards       58

Appendix 9: Financial statements and accounting ratios           60

Appendix 10: Use of calculators                                  61
About this specification

The Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary in Business and the Pearson Edexcel
International Advanced Level in Business are part of a suite of International Advanced Level
qualifications offered by Pearson.
These qualifications are not accredited or regulated by any UK regulatory body.

Key features

This specification includes the following key features.

Structure
The Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary in Business and the Pearson Edexcel
International Advanced Level in Business are modular qualifications.
The Advanced Subsidiary can be claimed on completion of the International Advanced
Subsidiary (IAS) units.
The International Advanced Level can be claimed on completion of all the units
(IAS and IA2 units).

Content
These qualifications build on the content covered in the legacy (2013) Pearson Edexcel
International Advanced Level in Business Studies. They have been updated to align them
with recent changes in the equivalent AS and A Level qualifications taken in England
and Wales.

Assessment
The qualifications are assessed by examination only.

Specification updates

This specification is Issue 1 and is valid for first teaching from September 2018. If there are
any significant changes to the specification, we will inform centres in writing. Changes will
also be posted on our website.
For more information please visit qualifications.pearson.com

2  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

   - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Using this specification

This specification gives teachers guidance and encourages effective delivery of these
qualifications. The following information will help you get the most out of the content
and guidance.
Compulsory content: as a minimum, all the bullet points in the content must be taught.
The word `including' in content specifies the detail of what must be covered.
Assessments: teachers should deliver these qualifications using a good range of examples
to support the assessment of the content.
Depth and breadth of content: teachers should use the full range of content and all the
assessment objectives given in the subject content section.

Qualification aims and objectives

The aims and objectives of these qualifications are to enable students to:
· develop an enthusiasm for studying business
· gain an holistic understanding of business in a range of contexts
· develop a critical understanding of organisations and their ability to meet society's needs

    and wants
· understand that business behaviour can be studied from a range of perspectives
· generate enterprising and creative approaches to business opportunities, problems

    and issues
· be aware of the ethical dilemmas and responsibilities faced by organisations

    and individuals
· acquire a range of relevant business and generic skills, including decision making,

    problem solving, the challenging of assumptions and critical analysis
· apply numerical skills in a range of business contexts.

Qualification abbreviations used in this specification

The following abbreviations appear in this specification:
International Advanced Subsidiary - IAS
International A2 - IA2 (the additional content required for an IAL)
International Advanced Level - IAL.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -                 3

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Why choose Edexcel qualifications?

Pearson - the world's largest education company

Edexcel academic qualifications are from Pearson, the UK's largest awarding organisation.
With over 3.4 million students studying our academic and vocational qualifications
worldwide, we offer internationally recognised qualifications to schools, colleges and
employers globally.

Pearson is recognised as the world's largest education company, allowing us to drive
innovation and provide comprehensive support for Edexcel students to acquire the
knowledge and skills they need for progression in study, work and life.

A heritage you can trust

The background to Pearson becoming the UK's largest awarding organisation began in 1836,
when a royal charter gave the University of London its first powers to conduct exams and
confer degrees on its students. With over 150 years of international education experience,
Edexcel qualifications have a firm academic foundation, built on the traditions and rigour
associated with Britain's educational system.

To find out more about our Edexcel heritage please visit our website:
qualifications.pearson.com/en/about-us/about-pearson/our-history

Results you can trust

Pearson's leading online marking technology has been shown to produce exceptionally
reliable results, demonstrating that at every stage, Edexcel qualifications maintain the
highest standards.

Developed to Pearson's world-class qualifications standards

Pearson's world-class standards mean that all Edexcel qualifications are developed to be
rigorous, demanding, inclusive and empowering. We work collaboratively with a panel of
educational thought-leaders and assessment experts to ensure that Edexcel qualifications
are globally relevant, represent world-class best practice and maintain a consistent
standard.

For more information on the world-class qualification process and principles please go to
Appendix 2: Pearson World Class Qualifications design principles or visit our website:
uk.pearson.com/world-class-qualifications.

4  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

   - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Why choose Pearson Edexcel International
Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level qualifications
in Business?

We have listened to feedback from all parts of the international school subject community,
including a large number of teachers. We have made changes that will engage international
learners and give them skills that will support their progression to further study of Business
and to a wide range of other subjects.

Key qualification features:

· Helps develop a holistic understanding of business - the assessment culminates
    with a final paper that draws on the knowledge and skills students developed from Units
    1, 2 and 3.

· Development of quantitative skills - students develop these skills throughout the
    content of the course and are required to apply these skills to relevant business contexts
    within the assessment.

· Consistent command word taxonomy - we have reduced the number of command
    words used in the assessment and applied a consistent mark tariff.

· Reflects today's global world - students develop an understanding of current global
    issues that impact on business, preparing them for their next steps in today's global
    world.

· Provides a real business focus - students are encouraged to contextualise theory and
    respond to real-life international business case studies and stimulus material.

· Accessible assessment - to ensure all students are able to access the whole exam
    paper we have introduced ramping within each question. Questions start with a low mark
    tariff and become more challenging as students work their way through the paper,
    helping to build confidence.

· Clear and simple structure - based on your feedback we have taken the opportunity to
    make some improvements to the clarity and structure of our new specification.

· Clear and straightforward question papers - our question papers are clear and
    accessible for students of all ability ranges. Our mark schemes are straightforward so that
    the assessment requirements are clear.

· Increased level of support - Student Book, online digital resources, mapping
    documents, Scheme of Work, Getting Started Guide, Course Planner and training.

Broad and deep development of learners' skills - we designed the International
Advanced Level qualifications to extend learners' knowledge by broadening and deepening
skills, for example learners will:

· develop multitude of skills, including numeracy, communication and an understanding of
    research methodology and interpretation, helping ease transition on to further study

· read sources to interpret and evaluate business information

· write extended responses

· respond appropriately to a range of question types, including multiple-choice, short-
    answer, data response and open-ended questions

· develop an understanding of business concepts and apply these concepts to real-life
    situations.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  5

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Progression - International Advanced Level qualifications enable successful progression to
further study or the workplace. Through our world-class qualification development process
we have consulted with higher education to validate the appropriateness of these
qualifications, including content, skills and assessment structure.

Related qualifications - Our International Advanced Level in Business sits within our wider
subject offer for Business qualifications. We also offer:

· Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Level in Economics

· Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Level in Accounting.

· Pearson Edexcel Level 3 Advanced Subsidiary GCE in Business

· Pearson Edexcel Level 3 Advanced GCE in Business

· Pearson Edexcel Level 3 Advanced Subsidiary GCE in Economics A

· Pearson Edexcel Level 3 Advanced GCE in Economics A

· Pearson Edexcel Level 3 Advanced Subsidiary GCE in Economics B

· Pearson Edexcel Level 3 Advanced GCE in Economics B

· Pearson BTEC Nationals and Higher Nationals in Business.

More information can be found on our website (qualifications.pearson.com) on the
Edexcel International Advanced Level pages.

6  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

   - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Supporting you in planning and implementing
these qualifications

Planning
· Our Getting Started Guide gives you an overview of the Pearson Edexcel International

    Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business to help you understand the changes to
    content and assessment, and what these changes mean for you and your students.
· We will provide you with an editable course planner and scheme of work.
· Our mapping documents highlight key differences from the legacy qualifications.

Teaching and learning
· Our skills maps will opportunities for students to develop skills that are assessed, as well

    as skills that are not directly assessed.
· Print and digital learning and teaching resources - promote any time, any place learning

    to improve student motivation and encourage new ways of working.

Preparing for exams
We will also provide a range of resources to help you prepare your students for the
assessments, including:
· examiner commentaries following each examination series.

ResultsPlus
ResultsPlus provides the most detailed analysis available of your students' examination
performance. It can help you identify the topics and skills where further learning would
benefit your students.

examWizard
A free online resource designed to support students and teachers with examination
preparation and assessment.

Training events
In addition to online training, we host a series of training events each year for teachers to
deepen their understanding of our qualifications.

Get help and support
Our subject advisor service will ensure that you receive help and guidance from us. You can
sign up to receive qualification updates and product service news at
qualifications.pearson.com or email `sign me up' to TeachingBusiness@pearson.com.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -                  7

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Qualification at a glance

Qualification overview

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary in Business
This qualification consists of two externally-examined units.
The International Advanced Subsidiary is the first half of the International Advanced Level
qualification and consists of two IAS units, Units 1 and 2. This qualification may be awarded
as a discrete qualification or may contribute 50 per cent towards the International Advanced
Level qualification.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Level in Business
This qualification consists of four externally-examined units.
The International Advanced Level consists of the two IAS units (Units 1 and 2) plus two IA2
units (Units 3 and 4). Students wishing to take the International Advanced Level must,
therefore, complete all four units.

Course of study

The structure of these qualifications allows teachers to construct a course of study that can
be taught and assessed as either:
· distinct modules of teaching and learning with related units of assessment taken at

    appropriate stages during the course; or
· a linear course assessed in its entirety at the end.

8  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

   - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Content and assessment overview

IAS                                                                             *Unit code:
Unit 1: Marketing and people                                                    WBS11/01

Externally assessed                                                             50% of     25% of
Written examination: 2 hours                                                    the total  the total
Availability: January, June and October                                         IAS        IAL
First assessment: January 2019
80 marks

Content overview

· Meeting customer needs

· The market

· Marketing mix and strategy

· Managing people

· Entrepreneurs and leaders

Assessment overview
Section A: Short- and extended-response questions based on sources (30 marks).
Section B: Same format as Section A, based on different sources (30 marks).
Section C: One 20-mark essay question, based on one or more sources (20 marks).

IAS                                                                             *Unit code:
Unit 2: Managing business activities                                            WBS12/01

Externally assessed                                                             50% of     25% of
Written examination: 2 hours                                                    the total  the total
Availability: January, June and October                                         IAS        IAL
First assessment: June 2019
80 marks

Content overview

· Planning a business and raising finance

· Financial planning

· Managing finance

· Resource management

· External influences

Assessment overview

Section A: Short- and extended-response questions based on sources (30 marks).

Section B: Same format as Section A, based on different sources (30 marks).

Section C: One 20-mark essay question, based on one or more sources (20 marks).

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -                        9

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
IA2                                                             *Unit code:
Unit 3: Business decisions and strategy                         WBS13/01

Externally assessed                                             50% of     25% of
Written examination: 2 hours                                    the total  the total
Availability: January, June and October                         IA2        IAL
First assessment: January 2020

80 marks

Content overview

· Business objectives and strategy

· Business growth

· Decision-making techniques

· Influences on business decisions

· Assessing competitiveness

· Managing change

Assessment overview

Section A: Short and extended-response questions, based on sources (40 marks).

Section B: One 20-mark essay question, based on one or more sources (20 marks).

Section C: One 20-mark essay question, based on one or more sources (20 marks).

IA2                                                             *Unit code:
Unit 4: Global business                                         WBS14/01

Externally assessed                                             50% of     25% of
Written examination: 2 hours                                    the total  the total
Availability: January, June and October                         IA2        IAL
First assessment: June 2020

80 marks

Content overview

· Globalisation

· Global markets and business expansion

· Global marketing

· Global industries and companies (multinational corporations)

Assessment overview

Section A: Short and extended-response questions, based on sources (40 marks).

Section B: One 20-mark essay question, based on one or more sources (20 marks).

Section C: One 20-mark essay question, based on one or more sources (20 marks).

*See Appendix 1: Codes for a description of this code and all other codes relevant to these
  qualifications.

10                           Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                             - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Business content

Unit 1: Marketing and people                                                    12

Unit 2: Managing business activities                                            20

Unit 3: Business decisions and strategy                                         26

Unit 4: Global business                                                         33

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  11

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Unit 1: Marketing and people

IAS compulsory unit

Externally assessed

1.1 Unit description

                                       In this unit, students are introduced to the market, explore the
                                       marketing and people functions and investigate entrepreneurs and
                                       business start-up.
                                       This unit enables students to understand how businesses identify
                                       opportunities and to explore how businesses focus on developing a
                                       competitive advantage through interacting with customers.
                                       Students develop an understanding of how businesses need to
                                       adapt their marketing to operate in a dynamic business
                                       environment. It also considers people, exploring how businesses
                                       recruit, train, organise and motivate employees, as well as the role
                                       of enterprising individuals and leaders.
                                       Students should investigate different types and sizes of
                                       organisation in various business sectors and environments, and in
                                       local, national and global contexts.
                                       Students need to have acquired competence in quantitative skills
                                       that are relevant to this unit. A full list of quantitative skills can be
                                       found in Appendix 7: Quantitative skills.

1.2 Assessment information

                                       · First assessment: January 2019.
                                       · The examination lasts 2 hours.
                                       · The paper is marked out of 80 marks.
                                       · The paper will include short-open response and

                                            extended-writing questions, based on sources.
                                        · The paper will include questions that require students to use

                                            quantitative skills.
                                       · Calculators may be used in the examination. See Appendix 10

                                            for more information.

12  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

    - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
1.3 Unit content

1.3.1 Meeting customer needs

What students need to learn:

1 The market       a) Mass markets and niche markets:
2 Market research      · characteristics
                       · market size and market share
3 Market               · brands.
   positioning
                   b) Dynamic markets:
                       · online retailing
                       · how markets change
                       · innovation and market growth
                       · adapting to change.

                   c) How competition affects the market.

                   d) The difference between risk and uncertainty.

                   a) Primary and secondary market research data (quantitative and
                       qualitative) used to:
                       · identify and anticipate customer needs and wants
                       · quantify likely demand
                       · gain insight into consumer behaviour.

                   b) Methods of primary market research:
                       · surveys/questionnaires
                       · focus groups/consumer panels
                       · face-to-face/telephone interviews
                       · product trials/test marketing.

                   c) Methods of secondary market research market research:
                       · websites/social media
                       · newspapers/magazines/TV/radio
                       · reports
                       · databases.

                   d) Sampling methods:
                       · random
                       · quota
                       · stratified.

                   a) Product and market orientation.

                   b) Market mapping.

                   c) Market segmentation.

                   d) Competitive advantage of a product or service.

                   e) The purpose of product differentiation.

                   f) Adding value to products/services.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -      13

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
1.3.2 The market

What students need to learn:

1 Demand               a) Factors leading to a change in demand:
                           · changes in the prices of substitutes and complementary goods
2 Supply                   · changes in consumer incomes
                           · fashions, tastes and preferences
3 Markets                  · marketing, advertising and branding
4 Price elasticity of      · demographics
                           · external shocks
   demand (PED)            · seasonality.

5 Income elasticity    a) Factors leading to a change in supply:
   of demand (YED)         · changes in the costs of production
                           · introduction of new technology
                           · indirect taxes
                           · government subsidies
                           · external shocks.

                       a) The interaction of demand and supply.

                       b) The drawing and interpretation of demand and supply diagrams to
                           show the causes and consequences of changes in demand and
                           supply.

                       a) Calculation of price elasticity of demand.

                       b) Interpretation of numerical values of price elasticity
                           of demand.

                       c) The factors influencing price elasticity of demand.

                       d) The significance of price elasticity of demand to businesses in
                           terms of implications for pricing.

                       e) Calculation and interpretation of the relationship between price
                           elasticity of demand and total revenue.

                       a) Calculation of income elasticity of demand.

                       b) Normal and inferior goods.

                       c) Interpretation of numerical values of income elasticity
                           of demand.

                       d) The factors influencing income elasticity of demand.

                       e) The significance of income elasticity of demand
                           to businesses.

14                            Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                              - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
1.3.3 Marketing mix and strategy

What students need to learn:

1 Marketing        a) Marketing objectives
   objectives and      · increase market share
   strategy            · increase revenue
                       · building a brand.
2 Product/service
   design          b) The product life cycle and extension strategies.

3 Promotion and    c) The Boston Matrix and the product portfolio.
   branding
                   d) The concept of `marketing mix'.

                   e) Marketing strategies appropriate for different types of market:
                       · mass markets
                       · niche markets
                       · business to business (B2B)
                       · business to consumer (B2C).

                   f) Consumer behaviour - how businesses develop customer loyalty.

                   a) Design mix:
                       · function
                       · aesthetics
                       · cost/economic manufacture.

                   b) Changes in the elements of the design mix to reflect social trends:
                       · concern over resource depletion: designing for waste
                           minimisation, re-use and recycling
                       · ethical sourcing.

                   a) Types of promotion.

                   b) Types of branding.

                   c) The benefits of strong branding:
                       · added value
                       · ability to charge premium prices
                       · reduced price elasticity of demand.

                   d) Ways to build a brand:
                       · unique selling points (USPs)/differentiation
                       · advertising
                       · sponsorship
                       · the use of social media.

                   e) Changes in branding and promotion to reflect social trends:
                       · viral marketing
                       · social media
                       · emotional branding.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  15

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
1.3.3 Marketing mix and strategy (continued)

What students need to learn:

4 Pricing strategies  a) Types of pricing strategy:
5 Distribution            · cost plus (mark-up on unit cost)
                          · price skimming
                          · penetration
                          · predatory
                          · competitive
                          · psychological.

                      b) Factors that determine the most appropriate pricing strategy for a
                          particular situation:
                          · number of USPs/amount of differentiation
                          · price elasticity of demand
                          · level of competition in the business environment
                          · strength of brand
                          · stage in the product life cycle
                          · costs and the need to make a profit.

                      c) Changes in pricing to reflect social trends:
                          · online sales
                          · price comparison sites.

                      a) Distribution channels:

                          · four stage: producer to wholesaler to retailer to consumer
                          · three stage: producer to retailer to consumer
                          · two stage: producer to consumer.

                      b) Changes in distribution methods.

16                    Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                      - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
1.3.4 Managing people

What students need to learn:

1 Approaches to   a) Staff as an asset; staff as a cost.
   staffing
                  b) Flexible workforce:
2 Recruitment,        · multi-skilling
   selection and      · part-time and temporary
   training           · zero-hour contracts
                      · flexible hours and home working
3 Organisational      · outsourcing.
   design
                  c) Distinction between dismissal and redundancy.

                  d) Employer/employee relationships
                      · individual approach
                      · collective bargaining.

                  a) Recruitment and selection process:
                      · internal versus external recruitment.

                  b) Costs of recruitment, selection and training

                  c) Types of training:
                      · induction
                      · on-the-job
                      · off-the-job.

                  a) Structure:
                      · hierarchy
                      · chain of command
                      · span of control
                      · centralised and decentralised.

                  b) Types of structure:
                      · tall
                      · flat
                      · matrix.

                  c) Impact of different organisational structures on business
                      efficiency and employee motivation.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  17

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
1.3.4 Managing people (continued)

What students need to learn:

4 Motivation in  a) The importance of employee motivation to a business
   theory and
   practice      b) Motivation theories:
                     · Taylor (scientific management)
5 Leadership         · Mayo (human relations theory)
                     · Maslow (hierarchy of needs)
                     · Herzberg (two-factor theory).

                 c) Financial methods to improve employee performance:
                     · piecework
                     · commission
                     · bonus
                     · profit share
                     · performance-related pay.

                 d) Non-financial methods to improve employee performance:
                     · delegation
                     · consultation
                     · empowerment
                     · team working
                     · flexible working
                     · job enrichment
                     · job rotation
                     · job enlargement.

                 a) Leadership:
                     · the distinction between management and leadership.

                 b) Types of leadership style:
                     · autocratic
                     · paternalistic
                     · democratic
                     · laissez-faire.

                 c) The difficulty of moving from entrepreneur to leader.

18               Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                 - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
1.3.5 Entrepreneurs and leaders

What students need to learn:

1 Role of an        a) Creating and setting up a business.
   entrepreneur
                    b) Running and expanding/developing a business.
2 Entrepreneurial
   motives and      c) Innovation within a business (intrapreneurship).
   characteristics
                    d) Barriers to entrepreneurship.
3 Business
   objectives       e) Anticipating risk and uncertainty in the business environment.

4 Business choices  a) Characteristics and skills required.

                    b) Reasons why people set up businesses:
                        · financial motives: profit maximisation and profit satisficing
                        · non-financial motives: ethical stance, social entrepreneurship,
                            independence and home working.

                    a) Survival.

                    b) Profit maximisation.

                    c) Other objectives:
                        · sales maximisation
                        · market share
                        · cost efficiency
                        · employee welfare
                        · customer satisfaction
                        · social objectives.

                    a) Opportunity cost.

                    b) Trade-offs.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  19

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Unit 2: Managing business activities

IAS compulsory unit

Externally assessed

2.1 Unit description

                                       In this unit, students explore the finance and operations functions,
                                       and investigate external influences on business.
                                       This unit enables students to develop an understanding of raising
                                       and managing finance, and measuring business performance.
                                       It outlines the importance of using resources efficiently within a
                                       business to ensure that goods or services can be delivered
                                       effectively and efficiently, and to a high quality. Students also
                                       consider the external influences that have an impact on
                                       businesses, including economic and legal factors.
                                       Students should investigate different types and sizes of
                                       organisation in various business sectors and environments, and in
                                       local, national and global contexts.
                                       Students need to have acquired competence in quantitative skills
                                       relevant to this unit. A full list of quantitative skills can be found in
                                       Appendix 7: Quantitative skills.
                                       For this unit, students will also need to be able to apply the
                                       accounting ratios given in Appendix 9: Financial statements and
                                       accounting ratios. These ratios will not be supplied in the
                                       examination.

2.2 Assessment information

                                       · First assessment: June 2019.
                                       · The examination lasts 2 hours.
                                       · The paper is marked out of 80 marks.
                                       · The paper will include short open-response and

                                            extended-writing questions, based on sources.
                                       · Questions may require students to draw on their knowledge

                                            from Unit 1.
                                       · The paper will include questions that require students to use

                                            quantitative skills.
                                       · Calculators may be used in the examination. See

                                            Appendix 10 for more information.

20  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

    - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
2.3 Unit content

2.3.1 Planning a business and raising finance

What students need to learn:

1 Planning          a) Content of a business plan.
2 Internal finance
3 External finance  b) Relevance and uses of a business plan.

4 Forms of          a) Owner's capital: personal savings.
   business
                    b) Retained profit.
5 Liability
                    c) Sale of assets.

                    a) Sources of finance and their suitability for different
                        circumstances:
                        · family and friends
                        · banks
                        · peer-to-peer funding
                        · business angels
                        · crowd funding
                        · other businesses.

                    b) Methods of finance and their suitability for different
                        circumstances:
                        · loans
                        · share capital
                        · venture capital
                        · overdrafts
                        · leasing
                        · trade credit
                        · grants.

                    a) Sole trader, partnership and private limited company (Ltd).

                    b) Franchising, social enterprise, lifestyle businesses, online
                        businesses.

                    c) Growth to public limited companies (plc) and stock market
                        flotation.

                    a) Implications of limited and unlimited liability, including
                        advantages and disadvantages.

                    b) Finance appropriate for limited and unlimited liability businesses.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  21

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
2.3.2 Financial planning

What students need to learn:

1 Sales, revenue     a) Calculation of sales volume and sales revenue.
   and costs         b) Calculation of fixed, variable costs, total costs and

2 Sales forecasting      average costs.
                     c) Ways of improving sales volumes and sales revenues.
3 Break-even         a) Purpose of sales forecasts.
                     b) Factors affecting sales forecasts:
4 Cash flow
5 Budgets                · consumer trends
                         · economic variables
                         · actions of competitors.
                     c) Difficulties of sales forecasting.
                     a) Contribution: selling price - variable cost per unit.
                     b) Break-even point:
                         · total fixed costs + total variable costs = total revenue.
                     c) Using contribution to calculate the break-even point.
                     d) Margin of safety.
                     e) Interpretation of break-even charts.
                     f) Limitations of break-even analysis.
                     a) Construction and interpretation of simple cash-flow forecasts.
                     b) Use and limitations of cash-flow forecasts.
                     a) Purposes of budgets.
                     b) Types of budget:
                         · based on historical figures
                         · zero based.
                     c) Variance analysis.
                     d) Difficulties of budgeting.

22                            Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                              - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
2.3.3 Managing finance

What students need to learn:

1 Profit            a) Calculation of:
2 Liquidity             · gross profit
3 Business failure      · operating profit
                        · profit for the year (net profit).

                    b) Ways to increase profits.

                    c) Statement of comprehensive income (profit and loss account):

                        · measuring profitability: calculation of gross profit margin,
                            operating profit margin, and profit for the year (net profit)
                            margin

                        · ways to improve profitability.

                    a) Distinction between profit and cash.

                    b) Statement of financial position (balance sheet):
                        · measuring liquidity: calculating current ratio and
                            acid test ratio
                        · ways to improve liquidity, including assets, supplier credit
                            terms, factoring, inventory JIT.

                    c) Working capital and its management: the importance
                        of cash.

                    a) Internal causes of business failure:
                        · poor management of cash flow
                        · overestimation of sales
                        · overtrading
                        · poor inventory control
                        · poor marketing
                        · poor quality.

                    b) External causes of business failure:
                        · market conditions
                        · competition
                        · economic
                        · exchange rates
                        · interest rates
                        · government regulations
                        · supplier problems
                        · natural phenomena.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -             23

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
2.3.4 Resource management

What students need to learn:

1 Production,        a) Methods of production:
   productivity and      · job
   efficiency            · batch
                         · flow
2 Capacity               · cell.
   utilisation
                     b) Productivity:
3 Inventory control      · output per unit of input per time period
                         · factors influencing productivity
4 Quality                · link between productivity and competitiveness
   management            · ways to improve productivity.

                     c) Efficiency:
                         · production at minimum average cost
                         · factors influencing efficiency
                         · ways to improve efficiency.

                     d) The distinction between labour- and capital-intensive production.

                     e) Competitive advantage from short product lead-in times.

                     a) Capacity utilisation: current output (divided by) maximum
                         possible output (× 100).

                     b) Implications of under- and over-utilisation of capacity.

                     c) Ways of improving capacity utilisation
                         (under and over utilisation).

                     a) Interpretation of inventory control diagram.

                     b) Buffer inventory.

                     c) Implications of poor inventory control.

                     d) Just in time (JIT).

                     e) Waste minimisation.

                     f) Competitive advantage from lean production.

                     a) Quality:
                         · control
                         · assurance
                         · circles.

                     b) Total Quality Management (TQM).

                     c) Continuous improvement (Kaizen).

                     d) Competitive advantage from quality management.

24                   Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                     - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
2.3.5 External influences

What students need to learn:

1 Economic         a) The effect on businesses of, and how they can best respond to,
   influences          changes in:

2 Legislation          · the rate of inflation
                       · exchange rates (appreciation, depreciation)
3 The competitive      · interest rates
   environment         · taxation and government spending
                       · the business cycle.

                   a) The effects on businesses of:

                       · consumer protection
                       · employee protection
                       · environmental protection
                       · competition policy
                       · health and safety
                       · intellectual property rights (copyright, patents

                           and trademarks).

                   a) The effects on businesses of competition in terms of competitor:

                       · numbers
                       · size
                       · behaviour.

                   b) Ways for a small business to compete in a competitive market.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  25

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Unit 3: Business decisions and strategy

IA2 compulsory unit

Externally assessed

3.1 Unit description

                                       In this unit, students develop their understanding of the concepts
                                       introduced in Units 1 and 2, and explore influences on business
                                       strategy and decision making.

                                       This unit moves from functions to strategy, enabling students to
                                       develop their understanding of the core concepts and to take a
                                       strategic view of business opportunities and issues. Students
                                       analyse corporate objectives and strategy against financial and
                                       non-financial performance measures and how businesses grow,
                                       and develop an understanding of the impact of external influences.
                                       The unit also covers the causes and effects of change and how
                                       businesses mitigate risk and uncertainty.

                                       Students should investigate different types and sizes of
                                       organisation in various business sectors and environments, and in
                                       local, national and global contexts.

                                       Students need to have acquired competence in quantitative skills
                                       that are relevant to this unit. A full list of quantitative skills can be
                                       found in Appendix 7: Quantitative skills.

                                       For this unit, students will also need to be able to apply the
                                       accounting ratios given in Appendix 9: Financial statements and
                                       accounting ratios. These ratios will not be supplied in the
                                       examination.

3.2 Assessment information

                                       · First assessment: January 2020.

                                       · The examination lasts 2 hours.

                                       · The paper is marked out of 80 marks.

                                       · The paper will include short open-response and
                                            extended-writing questions, based on sources.

                                       · Questions may require students to draw on their knowledge
                                            from Units 1 and 2.

                                       · The paper will include short-open response and
                                            extended-writing questions, based on sources.

                                       · The paper will include questions that require students to use
                                            quantitative skills.

                                       · Calculators may be used in the examination. See
                                            Appendix 10 for more information.

26  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

    - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
3.3 Unit content

3.3.1 Business objectives and strategy

What students need to learn:

1 Corporate      a) Development of corporate objectives from mission
   objectives        statement/corporate aims.

2 Theories of    b) Critical appraisal of mission statements.
   corporate
   strategy      a) Development of corporate strategy:
                     · Ansoff's Matrix
3 SWOT analysis      · Porter's Strategic Matrix.

4 Impact of      b) Aim of portfolio analysis.
   external
   influences    c) Effect of strategic and tactical decisions on human, physical, and
                     financial resources.

                 a) SWOT analysis
                     · internal considerations: strengths and weaknesses
                     · external considerations: opportunities and threats.

                 a) PESTLE (political, economic, social, technological, legal and
                     environmental).

                 b) The changing competitive environment.

                 c) Porter's five forces.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  27

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
3.3.2 Business growth

What students need to learn:

1 Growth            a) Objectives of growth:
                        · economies of scale (internal and external)
2 Organic growth        · increased market power over customers and suppliers
3 Inorganic growth      · increased market share and brand recognition
                        · increased profitability.
4 Problems arising
   from growth      b) The distinction between inorganic and organic growth.
                    a) Methods of growing organically.

                    b) Advantages and disadvantages of organic growth.

                    a) Mergers and takeovers:
                        · reasons for mergers and takeovers
                        · distinction between mergers and takeovers
                        · horizontal and vertical integration
                        · conglomerates
                        · financial risks and rewards.

                    b) Advantages and disadvantages of inorganic growth.
                    a) Diseconomies of scale.

                    b) Internal communication.

                    c) Overtrading.

28                            Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                              - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
3.3.3 Decision-making techniques

What students need to learn:

1 Quantitative        a) Calculation of time-series analysis: moving averages
   sales forecasting      (three period/four quarter).

2 Investment          b) Interpretation of scatter graphs and line of best fit: extrapolation
   appraisal              of past data to future.

3 Decision trees      c) Limitations of quantitative sales forecasting techniques.

4 Critical path       a) Simple payback.
   analysis           b) Average (accounting) rate of return.
                      c) Discounted cash flow (net present value only).
5 Contribution
                      d) Calculations and interpretations of figures generated by these
                          techniques.

                      e) Limitations of these techniques.

                      a) Construct and interpret simple decision-tree diagrams.
                      b) Calculations and interpretations of figures generated by these

                          techniques.

                      c) Limitations of using decision trees.

                      a) Nature and purpose of critical path analysis.

                      b) Complete and interpret simple networks to identify the critical
                          path.

                      c) Calculate:
                          · earliest start time
                          · latest finish time
                          · total float.

                      d) Limitations of using critical path analysis.

                      a) Nature and purpose of contribution.
                      b) Calculation and interpretation of contribution.

                      c) Use of contribution as a decision-making technique.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  29

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
3.3.4 Influences on business decisions

What students need to learn:

1 Corporate culture  a) Strong and weak cultures.

2 Stakeholder        b) Classification of company cultures:
   model versus          · power
   shareholder           · role
   model                 · task
                         · person.
3 Business ethics
                     c) How corporate culture is formed.

                     d) Difficulties in changing an established culture.

                     a) Internal and external stakeholders.

                     b) Stakeholder objectives.

                     c) Stakeholder and shareholder influences:
                         · stakeholder: that the business considers all of its stakeholders
                             in its business decisions/objectives
                         · shareholder: that the business should focus purely on
                             shareholder returns (increasing share price and dividends) in
                             its business decisions/objectives.

                     d) The potential for conflict between profit-based (shareholder) and
                         wider objectives (stakeholder).

                     a) Ethics of strategic decisions: trade-offs between profit
                         and ethics.

                     b) Pay and rewards.

                     c) Corporate social responsibility (CSR).

30                   Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                     - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
3.3.5 Assessing competitiveness

What students need to learn:

1 Interpretation of  a) Statement of comprehensive income (profit and
   financial             loss account):
   statements            · key information
                         · stakeholder interest.
2 Ratio analysis
                     b) Statement of financial position (balance sheet)
3 Human resources        · key information
                         · stakeholder interest.

                     a) Calculate:
                         · profitability (gross profit margin and profit for the
                             year margin)
                         · liquidity (current and acid test ratios)
                         · gearing ratio
                         · return on capital employed (ROCE).

                     b) Interpret ratios to make business decisions.

                     c) The limitations of ratio analysis.

                     a) Calculate and interpret the following to help make business
                         decisions:
                         · labour productivity
                         · labour turnover and retention
                         · absenteeism.

                     b) Limitations of these calculations.

                     c) Human resource strategies to increase productivity and retention
                         and to reduce turnover and absenteeism:
                         · financial rewards
                         · employee share ownership
                         · consultation strategies
                         · empowerment strategies.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  31

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
3.3.6 Manging change

What students need to learn:

1 Key factors in  a) Organisational culture.
   change
                  b) Size of organisation.
2 Contingency
   planning       c) Time/speed of change.

                  d) Managing resistance to change.

                  e) Transformative leadership.

                  a) Identifying key risks through risk assessment:
                      · natural disasters
                      · IT systems failure
                      · loss of key staff.

                  b) Planning for risk mitigation:
                      · business continuity
                      · succession planning.

32                            Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                              - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Unit 4: Global business

IA2 compulsory unit

Externally assessed

4.1 Unit description

                                       In this unit, students develop their understanding of the concepts
                                       introduced in Units 1, 2 and 3, and explore business activity in a
                                       global context.
                                       Students investigate businesses that trade on a global scale and
                                       explore their reasons for doing so. Students develop an
                                       understanding of the globally competitive environment and
                                       consider the ethical and moral dimensions of global business
                                       activities. In this unit, it is important to note that the impacts of
                                       globalisation and global markets covered in 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 will
                                       need to be understood in relation to businesses.
                                       Students should investigate different types and sizes of
                                       organisation in various business sectors and environments.
                                       Students need to have acquired competence in quantitative skills
                                       relevant to this unit. A full list of quantitative skills can be found in
                                       Appendix 7: Quantitative skills.

4.2 Assessment information

                                       · First assessment: June 2020.
                                       · The examination lasts 2 hours.
                                       · The paper is marked out of 80 marks.
                                       · The paper will include short open-response and

                                            extended-writing questions.
                                       · Questions may require students to draw on their knowledge

                                            from Units 1, 2 and 3.
                                       · The paper will include questions that require students to use

                                            quantitative skills.
                                       · Calculators may be used in the examination. See Appendix 10

                                            for more information.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  33

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
4.3 Unit content

4.3.1 Globalisation

What students need to learn:

1 Growing           a) Characteristics of developed, developing and emerging
   economies            economies.

2 International     b) Growing economic power of countries within Asia, Africa and other
   trade and            parts of the world.
   business growth
                    c) Implications of economic growth for individuals and businesses:
3 Factors               · trade opportunities for businesses
   contributing to      · employment patterns.
   increased
   globalisation    d) Indicators of growth:
                        · gross domestic product (GDP) and GDP per capita
4 Protectionism         · human development index (HDI).

5 Trading blocs     a) Exports and imports.

                    b) Implications of increasing specialisation by countries and
                        businesses.

                    c) Foreign direct investment (FDI) and link to business growth.

                    a) Trade liberalisation, the reduction of trade barriers and the role of
                        the WTO.

                    b) Political change.

                    c) Reduced cost of transport and communication.

                    d) Increased significance of global (multinational) corporations
                        (MNCs).

                    e) Increased investment flows (FDI).

                    f) Migration within and between economies.

                    g) Growth of the global labour force.

                    h) Structural change.

                    i) Impact on businesses of increased globalisation.

                    a) Reasons for protectionism.

                    b) Tariffs.

                    c) Import quotas.

                    d) Other trade barriers:
                        · government legislation
                        · domestic subsidies.

                    e) Impact on businesses of protectionism.

                    a) Expansion of trading blocs:
                        · EU and the single market
                        · ASEAN
                        · NAFTA.

                    b) The impact on businesses of trading blocs.

34                            Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                              - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
4.3.2 Global markets and business expansion

What students need to learn:

1 Conditions that   a) Push factors:
   prompt trade         · saturated markets
                        · competition.
2 Assessment of a
   country as a     b) Pull factors:
   market               · increased sales and profitability
                        · risk spreading and economies of scale.
3 Assessment of a
   country as a     c) Cost competitiveness by off-shoring and outsourcing.
   production
   location         d) Extending the product life cycle.

4 Reasons for       a) Factors to consider:
   global mergers,      · levels and growth of disposable income
   takeovers or         · ease of doing business
   joint ventures       · infrastructure
                        · political stability
5 Global expansion      · exchange rates.
   and uncertainty
                    b) Application of Porter's five forces in assessing
                        potential markets.

                    a) Factors to consider:
                        · costs of production
                        · skills and availability of labour force
                        · infrastructure
                        · location in trade bloc
                        · government incentives
                        · ease of doing business
                        · political stability
                        · natural resources
                        · likely return on investment.

                    a) Spreading risk and economies of scale.

                    b) Entering new markets/trade blocs.

                    c) Acquiring national/international brand names/patents.

                    d) Securing resources/supplies.

                    e) Maintaining/increasing global competitiveness.

                    f) Reducing competition.

                    g) Making use of local knowledge.

                    h) Government or legal requirement.

                    i) Accessing supply chains/distribution networks.

                    j) Sharing costs/risks.

                    a) The impact on businesses of movements in exchange rates.

                    b) Skill shortages and their impact on international competitiveness.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  35

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
4.3.3 Global marketing

What students need to learn:

1 Marketing        a) Global marketing strategy and global localisation (glocalisation).

2 Niche markets    b) Different marketing approaches:
3 Cultural/social      · domestic/ethnocentric
                       · mixed/geocentric
   factors             · international/polycentric.

                   c) Application and adaptation of the marketing mix (4Ps) to global
                       markets.

                   d) Application of Ansoff's matrix and Porter's matrix to global
                       marketing decisions.

                   a) Cultural diversity: recognition that groups of people across the
                       globe have different interests and values.

                   b) Features of global niche markets.

                   c) Application and adaptation of the marketing mix (4Ps) to suit
                       global niches.

                   a) Considerations for businesses:
                       · cultural differences
                       · different tastes and preferences
                       · language and unintended meanings
                       · inappropriate branding and promotion.

36                            Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                              - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
4.3.4 Global industries and companies (multinational corporations)

What students need to learn:

1 The impact of     a) Impact of MNCs on the local economy:
   MNCs                 · local labour, wages, working conditions and job creation
                        · local businesses
2 International         · the local community and environment.
   business ethics
                    b) Impact of MNCs on the national economy:
3 Controlling MNCs      · economic growth
                        · FDI flows
                        · balance of payments
                        · technology and skills transfer
                        · consumers
                        · business culture
                        · tax revenues.

                    a) Stakeholder conflicts.

                    b) Environmental considerations:
                        · emissions and waste disposal
                        · sustainability.

                    c) Supply chain considerations:
                        · pay and working conditions
                        · exploitation of labour and child labour.

                    d) Marketing considerations:
                        · misleading product labelling
                        · inappropriate marketing activities.

                    a) Factors to consider:
                        · power of MNC
                        · political influence
                        · legal control
                        · consumer pressure
                        · pressure groups
                        · social media
                        · self-regulation.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -      37

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Assessment information

Assessment requirements

The Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary in Business consists of two
externally-examined units.
The Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Level in Business consists of four
externally-examined units.
Students must complete all assessments.
Please see the Assessment availability and first award section for information on when the
assessment for each unit will be available.

Unit                    IAS or Assessment information                 Number of raw
                        IA2                                           marks allocated
                                                                      in the unit
Unit 1: Marketing and IAS    Section A: Short- and extended-response  80 marks
people                       questions based on sources
                             (30 marks).                              80 marks
Unit 2: Managing        IAS                                           80 marks
                             Section B: Short- and extended-response
business activities          questions based on sources               80 marks
                             (30 marks).
Unit 3: Business        IA2
                             Section C: One 20-mark essay question,
decisions and strategy       based on one or more sources
                             (20 marks).
Unit 4: Global business IA2
                             Same as Unit 1.

                             Section A: Short- and extended-response
                             questions based on sources
                             (40 marks).

                             Section B: One essay question, based on
                             one or more sources
                             (20 marks).

                             Section C: One essay question, based on
                             one or more sources
                             (20 marks).

                             Same as Unit 3.

Sample assessment materials

Sample papers and mark schemes can be found in the Pearson Edexcel International
Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business Sample Assessment Materials (SAMs)
document.

A full list of command words that will be used in the assessments can be found in
Appendix 6.

Assessment materials will use terminology consistent with International Accounting
Standards. See Appendix 8 for more information.

38                           Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                             - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Assessment objectives and weightings

                                                                                % in   % in  % in
                                                                                IAS    IA2    IAL

AO1  Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of terms,                          27.5 20 23.8
     concepts, theories, methods and models

AO2  Apply knowledge and understanding to various business
     contexts to show how individuals and organisations are
     affected by and respond to issues                                               25 22.5 23.8

AO3  Analyse business issues, showing an understanding of
     the causes, costs and consequences for individuals and
     organisations                                                              27.5 30 28.8
                                                                                 20 27.5 23.8
AO4  Evaluate evidence to make informed judgements and
     propose evidence-based solutions to business issues

NB Totals have been rounded up or down.

Relationship of assessment objectives to units for the
International Advanced Subsidiary qualification

Unit number                              Assessment objective

                         AO1             AO2                                    AO3    AO4
                                                                                       10%
Unit 1                   13.75%          12.5%                             13.75%      10%
                         13.75%          12.5%                             13.75%
Unit 2                   27.5%           25%                               27.5%       20%

Total for International
Advanced Subsidiary

NB Totals have been rounded up or down.

Relationship of assessment objectives to units for the
International Advanced Level qualification

Unit number                              Assessment objective

                         AO1             AO2                                    AO3      AO4
                                                                                          5%
Unit 1                    6.9%            6.3%                                   6.9%     5%
Unit 2                    6.9%            6.3%                                   6.9%   6.9%
Unit 3                      5%            5.6%                                   7.5%   6.9%
Unit 4                      5%            5.6%                                   7.5%
Total for International                                                                23.8%
Advanced Level           23.8%           23.8%                                  28.8%

NB Totals have been rounded up or down.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -                39

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Assessment availability and first award

Unit       January  June  October        January  June
1            2019   2019    2019           2020   2020
2                                             
3                                                    
4                                                    
IAS award                                            
IAL award                                            
                                                     
                                                     

From June 2020, all four units will be assessed in January, June and October for the
lifetime of the qualifications.

From June 2020 IAL and IAS will both be awarded in January, June and October for the
lifetime of the qualifications.

40                  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                    - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Administration and general information

Entries and resitting of units

Entries

Details of how to enter students for the examinations for these qualifications can be found in
our International Information Manual. A copy is made available to all examinations officers
and is available on our website, qualifications.pearson.com.

Resitting of units

Students can resit any unit irrespective of whether the qualification is to be cashed in. If a
student resits a unit more than once, only the better of the two most recent attempts of that
unit will be available for aggregation to a qualification grade. Please refer to the
Entry, Aggregation and Certification document on our website:
qualifications.pearson.com/IAL-entry-certification-procedures.

Access arrangements, reasonable adjustments,
special consideration and malpractice

Equality and fairness are central to our work. Our equality policy requires all students to
have equal opportunity to access our qualifications and assessments, and our qualifications
to be awarded in a way that is fair to every student.
We are committed to making sure that:
· students with a protected characteristic (as defined by the UK Equality Act 2010) are not,

    when they are undertaking one of our qualifications, disadvantaged in comparison to
    students who do not share that characteristic
· all students achieve the recognition they deserve for undertaking a qualification and that
    this achievement can be compared fairly to the achievement of their peers.

Language of assessment

Assessment of these qualifications will be available in English only. All student work must be
in English.
We recommend that students are able to read and write in English at Level B2 of the
Common European Framework of Reference for Languages.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  41

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Access arrangements

Access arrangements are agreed before an assessment. They allow students with special
educational needs, disabilities or temporary injuries to:

· access the assessment

· show what they know and can do without changing the demands of the assessment.

The intention behind an access arrangement is to meet the particular needs of an individual
student with a disability without affecting the integrity of the assessment. Access
arrangements are the principal way in which awarding bodies comply with the duty under
the Equality Act 2010 to make `reasonable adjustments'.

Access arrangements should always be processed at the start of the course. Students will
then know what is available and have the access arrangement(s) in place for assessment.

Reasonable adjustments

The Equality Act 2010 requires an awarding organisation to make reasonable adjustments
where a student with a disability would be at a substantial disadvantage in undertaking an
assessment. The awarding organisation is required to take reasonable steps to overcome
that disadvantage.

A reasonable adjustment for a particular student may be unique to that individual and
therefore might not be in the list of available access arrangements.

Whether an adjustment will be considered reasonable will depend on a number of factors,
including:

· the needs of the student with the disability

· the effectiveness of the adjustment

· the cost of the adjustment; and

· the likely impact of the adjustment on the student with the disability and other students.

An adjustment will not be approved if it involves unreasonable costs to the awarding
organisation, timeframes or affects the security or integrity of the assessment. This is
because the adjustment is not `reasonable'.

Special consideration

Special consideration is a post-examination adjustment to a student's mark or grade to
reflect temporary injury, illness or other indisposition at the time of the examination/
assessment, which has had, or is reasonably likely to have had, a material effect on a
candidate's ability to take an assessment or demonstrate their level of attainment in an
assessment.

Further information

Please see our website for further information about how to apply for access arrangements
and special consideration.

For further information about access arrangements, reasonable adjustments and special
consideration please refer to the JCQ website: www.jcq.org.uk.

42  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

    - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Candidate malpractice

Candidate malpractice refers to any act by a candidate that compromises or seeks to
compromise the process of assessment or which undermines the integrity of the
qualifications or the validity of results/certificates.

Candidate malpractice in controlled assessments discovered before the candidate has signed
the declaration of authentication form does not need to be reported to Pearson.

Candidate malpractice found in controlled assessments after the declaration of authenticity
has been signed, and in examinations must be reported to Pearson on a JCQ Form M1
(available at www.jcq.org.uk/exams-office/malpractice). The completed form can be
emailed to pqsmalpractice@pearson.com or posted to: Investigations Team, Pearson,
190 High Holborn, London, WC1V 7BH. Please provide as much information and supporting
documentation as possible. Note that the final decision regarding appropriate sanctions lies
with Pearson.

Failure to report candidate malpractice constitutes staff or centre malpractice.

Staff/centre malpractice

Staff and centre malpractice includes both deliberate malpractice and maladministration of
our qualifications. As with candidate malpractice, staff and centre malpractice is any act that
compromises or seeks to compromise the process of assessment or which undermines the
integrity of the qualifications or the validity of results/certificates.

All cases of suspected staff malpractice and maladministration must be reported
immediately, before any investigation is undertaken by the centre, to Pearson on a
JCQ Form M2(a) (available at www.jcq.org.uk/exams-office/malpractice).

The form, supporting documentation and as much information as possible can be emailed to
pqsmalpractice@pearson.com or posted to: Investigations Team, Pearson,
190 High Holborn, London, WC1V 7BH. Note that the final decision regarding
appropriate sanctions lies with Pearson.

Failure to report malpractice itself constitutes malpractice.

More-detailed guidance on malpractice can be found in the latest version of the document
JCQ General and vocational qualifications Suspected Malpractice in Examinations and
Assessments, available at www.jcq.org.uk/exams-office/malpractice.

Awarding and reporting

The Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary in Business will be graded on a five-
grade scale from A to E. The Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Level in Business will
be graded on a six-point scale A* to E. Individual unit results will be reported. Only Units 1
and 2 will contribute to the International Advanced Subsidiary grade. All four units will
contribute to the International Advanced Level grade.

The first certification opportunity for the Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary
in Business will be in August 2019. The first certification opportunity for the Pearson Edexcel
International Advanced Level in Business will be in August 2020. A pass in an International
Advanced Subsidiary subject is indicated by one of the five grades A, B, C, D, E, of which
grade A is the highest and grade E the lowest. A pass in an International Advanced Level
subject is indicated by one of the six grades A*, A, B, C, D, E, of which grade A* is the
highest and grade E the lowest. Students whose level of achievement is below the minimum
judged by Pearson to be of sufficient standard to be recorded on a certificate will receive an
unclassified U result.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  43

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Unit results

Students will receive a uniform mark between 0 and the maximum uniform mark for
each unit.

The uniform marks at each grade threshold for each unit are:

Units 1, 2, 3 and 4

Unit grade           Maximum A B C D E
               uniform mark

                     100     80   70                60        50           40

Qualification results

The minimum uniform marks required for each grade:

International Advanced Subsidiary (cash-in code: XBS11)

Qualification        Maximum A B C D E

grade          uniform mark

                     200     160  140               120       100          80

Students with a uniform mark in the range 0-79 will be Unclassified (U).

International Advanced Level (cash-in code: YBS11)

Qualification        Maximum A B C D E

grade          uniform mark

                     400     320  280               240       200          160

Students with a uniform mark in the range 0-159 will be Unclassified (U).

To be awarded an A*, students will need to achieve an A for the International Advanced
Level qualification (at least 320 uniform marks) and at least 90% of the total uniform mark
available across the IA2 units combined (at least 180 uniform marks).

44                        Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                          - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Student recruitment and progression

Pearson follows the JCQ policy concerning recruitment to our qualifications in that:
· they must be available to anyone who is capable of reaching the required standard
· they must be free from barriers that restrict access and progression
· equal opportunities exist for all students.

Prior learning and other requirements

There are no formal prior learning or other requirements for these qualifications.
Students who would benefit most from studying these qualifications are likely to have a
qualification in a numerate subject such as an International GCSE in Mathematics. A
qualification in a business-related subject, such as an International GCSE in Business Studies
or Commerce would be an advantage, but is not necessary.

Progression

Students can progress from these qualifications to:
· higher education courses such as business management, business administration,

    accountancy and finance, human resource management, marketing, retail management,
    tourism management, international business
· a wide range of careers, ranging from banking, sales, product management and general
    management to working in public sector organisations and charities.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  45

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
46  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

    - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Appendices

Appendix 1: Codes                                                               48

Appendix 2: Pearson World Class Qualification design principles                 49

Appendix 3: Transferable skills                                                 51

Appendix 4: Level 3 Extended Project qualification                              52

Appendix 5: Glossary                                                            55

Appendix 6: Command words                                                       56

Appendix 7: Quantitative skills                                                 57

Appendix 8: Glossary of International Accounting Standards                      58

Appendix 9: Financial statements and accounting ratios                          60

Appendix 10: Use of calculators                                                 61

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  47

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Appendix 1: Codes

Type of code   Use of code                              Code
Unit codes                                              Unit 1: WBS11/01
               Each unit is assigned a code. This unit  Unit 2: WBS12/01
Cash-in codes  code is used as an entry code to         Unit 3: WBS13/01
               indicate that a student wishes to take   Unit 4: WBS14/01
               the assessment for that unit. Centres
               will need to use the unit codes only     International Advanced
               when entering students for their         Subsidiary - XBS11
               examination.                             International Advanced
                                                        Level - YBS11
               The cash-in code is used as a code to
               aggregate the student's unit scores to
               obtain the overall grade for the
               qualification.

48             Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

               - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Appendix 2: Pearson World Class Qualification
design principles

Pearson's World Class Qualification design principles mean that all Edexcel qualifications are
developed to be rigorous, demanding, inclusive and empowering.

We work collaboratively to gain approval from an external panel of educational
thought-leaders and assessment experts from across the globe. This is to ensure that
Edexcel qualifications are globally relevant, represent world-class best practice in
qualification and assessment design, maintain a consistent standard and support learner
progression in today's fast-changing world.

Pearson's Expert Panel for World-Class Qualifications is chaired by Sir Michael Barber, a
leading authority on education systems and reform. He is joined by a wide range of key
influencers with expertise in education and employability.

"I'm excited to be in a position to work with the global leaders in curriculum and assessment
to take a fresh look at what young people need to know and be able to do in the 21st
century, and to consider how we can give them the opportunity to access that sort of
education." Sir Michael Barber.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  49

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Endorsement from Pearson's Expert Panel for World Class
Qualifications for the International Advanced Subsidiary
(IAS)/International Advanced Level (IAL) development process

December 2015

"We were chosen, either because of our expertise in the UK education system, or because of
our experience in reforming qualifications in other systems around the world as diverse as
Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia and a number of countries across Europe.

We have guided Pearson through what we judge to be a rigorous world class qualification
development process that has included, where appropriate:

· extensive international comparability of subject content against the highest-performing
    jurisdictions in the world

· benchmarking assessments against UK and overseas providers to ensure that they are at
    the right level of demand

· establishing External Subject Advisory Groups, drawing on independent subject-specific
    expertise to challenge and validate our qualifications.

Importantly, we have worked to ensure that the content and learning is future oriented, and
that the design has been guided by Pearson's Efficacy Framework. This is a structured,
evidenced process which means that learner outcomes have been at the heart of this
development throughout.

We understand that ultimately it is excellent teaching that is the key factor to a learner's
success in education but as a result of our work as a panel we are confident that we have
supported the development of Edexcel IAS and IAL qualifications that are outstanding for
their coherence, thoroughness and attention to detail and can be regarded as representing
world-class best practice."

Sir Michael Barber (Chair)                    Professor Lee Sing Kong
Chief Education Advisor, Pearson plc          Dean and Managing Director, National
                                              Institute of Education International,
Dr Peter Hill                                 Singapore
Former Chief Executive ACARA
Professor Jonathan Osborne                    Bahram Bekhradnia
Stanford University                           President, Higher Education Policy Institute

Professor Dr Ursula Renold                    Dame Sally Coates
Federal Institute of Technology, Switzerland  Director of Academies (South), United
Professor Janice Kay                          Learning Trust
Provost, University of Exeter
                                              Professor Bob Schwartz
Jason Holt                                    Harvard Graduate School of Education
CEO, Holts Group
                                              Jane Beine
                                              Head of Partner Development, John Lewis
                                              Partnership

All titles correct as at December 2015.

50  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

    - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Appendix 3: Transferable skills

The need for transferable skills

In recent years, higher-education institutions and employers have consistently flagged the
need for students to develop a range of transferable skills to enable them to respond with
confidence to the demands of undergraduate study and the world of work.

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) defines skills, or
competencies, as `the bundle of knowledge, attributes and capacities that can be learned
and that enable individuals to successfully and consistently perform an activity or task and
can be built upon and extended through learning.'[1]

To support the design of our qualifications, the Pearson Research Team selected and
evaluated seven global 21st-century skills frameworks. Following on from this process, we
identified the National Research Council's (NRC) framework [2] as the most evidence-based
and robust skills framework, and have used this as a basis for our adapted skills framework.

The framework includes cognitive, intrapersonal skills and interpersonal skills.

The skills have been interpreted for this specification to ensure they are appropriate for the
subject. All of the skills listed are evident or accessible in the teaching, learning and/or
assessment of the qualifications. Some skills are directly assessed. Pearson materials will
support you in identifying these skills and developing these skills in students.

The table overleaf sets out the framework and gives an indication of the skills that can be
found in business and indicates the interpretation of the skill in this area. A full subject
interpretation of each skill, with mapping to show opportunities for student development is
given on the subject pages of our website: qualifications.pearson.com

1 OECD - Better Skills, Better Jobs, Better Lives (OECD Publishing, 2012)
2 Koenig J A, National Research Council - Assessing 21st Century Skills: Summary of a Workshop (National

Academies Press, 2011)

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -                            51

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
    Cognitive skills      Cognitive          · Critical thinking                    Examining evidence, such as
                          processes and      · Problem solving                      information about a business.
    Intrapersonal skills  strategies         · Analysis                             Interpret data to understand the
                                             · Reasoning/argumentation              meaning of that data.
    Interpersonal skills  Creativity         · Interpretation
                          Intellectual       · Decision making                      Ability and willingness to act
                          openness           · Adaptive learning                    without being told to do so. Using
                                             · Executive function                   business knowledge,
                          Work ethic/        · Creativity                           independently, to further own
                          conscientiousness  · Innovation                           understanding. Looking at real
                                             · Adaptability                         world stories in newspapers, on
                          Positive core      · Personal and social responsibility   news and online.
                          self-evaluation    · Continuous learning
                          Teamwork and       · Intellectual interest and curiosity  Dialogue between two or more
                          collaboration      · Initiative                           people to reach a beneficial
                                             · Self-direction                       outcome where a conflict exists.
                          Leadership         · Responsibility                       Working within a team negotiate
                                             · Perseverance                         the aspects of an issue that
                                             · Productivity                         affects business each person will
                                             · Self-regulation (metacognition,      research or present on.

                                                  forethought, reflection)
                                             · Ethics
                                             · Integrity
                                             · Self-monitoring/self-

                                                  evaluation/self-reinforcement
                                             · Communication
                                             · Collaboration
                                             · Teamwork
                                             · Cooperation
                                             · Empathy/perspective taking
                                             · Negotiation
                                             · Responsibility
                                             · Assertive communication
                                             · Self-presentation

52                                           Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                                             - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Appendix 4: Level 3 Extended Project qualification

What is the Extended Project?

The Extended Project is a standalone qualification that can be taken alongside International
Advanced Level (IAL) qualifications.
It supports the development of independent learning skills and helps to prepare students for
their next step - whether that be higher education or employment. The qualification:

· is recognised by higher education for the skills it develops

· is worth half of an International Advanced Level (IAL) qualification at grades A*-E

· carries UCAS points for university entry.

The Extended Project encourages students to develop skills in the following areas: research,
critical thinking, extended writing and project management. Students identify and agree a
topic area of their choice for in-depth study (which may or may not be related to an IAL
subject they are already studying), guided by their teacher.

Students can choose from one of four approaches to produce:

· a dissertation (for example an investigation based on predominately secondary research)

· an investigation/field study (for example a practical experiment)

· a performance (for example in music, drama or sport)

· an artefact (for example creating a sculpture in response to a client brief or solving an
    engineering problem).

The qualification is non-examination assessment based and students are assessed on the
skills of managing, planning and evaluating their project. Students will research their topic,
develop skills to review and evaluate the information, and then present the final outcome of
their project.

The Extended Project has 120 guided learning hours (GLH) consisting of a 40-GLH taught
element that includes teaching the technical skills (for example research skills) and an
80-GLH guided element that includes mentoring students through the project work. The
qualification is 100% internally assessed and externally moderated.

How to link the Extended Project with business

The Extended Project creates the opportunity to develop transferable skills for progression to
higher education and to the workplace through the exploration of either an area of personal
interest or a topic of interest from within the business qualification content.

Through the Extended Project, students will develop skills that support their study of
business, including:

· conducting, organising and using research

· independent reading in the subject area

· planning, project management and time management

· defining a hypothesis to be tested in investigations or developing a design brief

· collecting, handling and interpreting data and evidence

· evaluating arguments and processes, including arguments in favour of alternative
    interpretations of data and evaluation of experimental methodology

· critical thinking.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  53

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
In the context of the Extended Project, critical thinking refers to the ability to identify and
develop arguments for a point of view or hypothesis and to consider and respond to
alternative arguments. This supports the development of evaluative skills, through
evaluating business arguments and using qualitative and quantitative evidence to support
informed judgements and propose evidence-based solutions to business issues.

Types of Extended Project related to business

Students may produce a dissertation on any topic that can be researched and argued,
for example a controversial business issue such as child labour, executive pay, advertising
to children.

A dissertation might involve an investigation such as:

· the impact of digital downloads on the music industry

· the ease of doing business in a chosen country.

The dissertation uses secondary research sources to provide a reasoned defence or a point
of view, with consideration of counter-arguments.

An alternative might be an investigative project or field study involving the collection of data
from primary research, for example:

· a study of the impact of unemployment on the local community

· a statistical survey of changing social attitudes towards online purchasing.

A field study might consider an issue that lends itself to primary research, for example an
investigation into the motivation techniques used in a chosen business.

Using the Extended Project to support breadth and depth

In the Extended Project, students are assessed on the quality of the work they produce and
the skills they develop and demonstrate through completing this work. Students should
demonstrate that they have extended themselves in some significant way beyond what they
have been studying in business. Students can demonstrate extension in one or more
dimensions:

· deepening understanding - where a student explores a topic in greater depth than in
    the specification content

· broadening skills - where a student learns a new skill. This might be learning how to
    design a website or a new statistical technique that can be used in the analysis of either
    primary or secondary data collected by the student

· widening perspectives - where the student's project spans different subjects.
    A student studying business with geography may wish to research the impact of tourism
    on a particular region or locality. A student studying business with mathematics may wish
    to use statistical techniques to analyse market data and research one aspect of a market
    in more detail.

A wide range of information to support the delivery and assessment of the Extended Project,
including the specification, teacher guidance for all aspects, an editable scheme of work and
exemplars for all four approaches, can be found on our website.

54  Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

    - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Appendix 5: Glossary

Term                      Definition
Assessment objectives
                          The requirements that students need to meet to succeed in
External assessment       the qualification. Each assessment objective has a unique
International Advanced    focus, which is then targeted in examinations or coursework.
Subsidiary                Assessment objectives may be assessed individually or in
International Advanced    combination.
Level
International A2 (IA2)    An examination that is held at the same time and place in a
Linear                    global region.

Modular                   Abbreviated to IAS.

Raw marks                 Abbreviated to IAL.

Uniform Mark Scale (UMS)  The additional content required for an IAL.

Unit                      Linear qualifications have all assessments at the end of a
                          course of study. It is not possible to take one assessment
                          earlier in the course of study.

                          Modular qualifications contain units of assessment.
                          These units can be taken during the course of study.
                          The final qualification grade is worked out from the
                          combined unit results.

                          Raw marks are the actual marks that students achieve when
                          taking an assessment. When calculating an overall grade,
                          raw marks often need to be converted so that it is possible
                          to see the proportionate achievement of a student across all
                          units of study.

                          Student actual marks (or raw marks) will be converted into
                          a UMS mark so that it is possible to see the proportionate
                          result of a student. Two units may each be worth 25% of a
                          total qualification. The raw marks for each unit may differ,
                          but the uniform mark will be the same.

                          A modular qualification will be divided into a number of
                          units. Each unit will have its own assessment.

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -          55

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Appendix 6: Command words

The table below lists the command words that will be used in the question papers along with
an outline of what each type of question requires students to do.

Command    Number of    What students are required to do
Define     marks
Calculate  2            Requires students to define a term or phrase.
Construct  4
Explain                 Requires students to perform a calculation, based on
Analyse    4            given data. Calculators may be used and workings
                        should be given.
Discuss    4
                        Requires students to draw an accurately labelled
Assess     6            diagram. Students may be required to decide on a
                        type of diagram, or the type required may be stated.
Evaluate   8
                        Requires students to provide a brief explanation of
           10           cause or effect, which is supported by details or
           [Units 1/2]  example(s).
           12
           [Units 3/4]  Requires a brief chain of reasoning, explanation
                        and/or justification. If applied to given diagrams or
           20           data, it will include interpretation. Does not include
                        evaluation.

                        Requires a logical chains of reasoning, in context,
                        showing cause(s) and/or effect(s). A brief assessment
                        is required showing an awareness of competing
                        arguments/factors.

                        Requires a coherent and logical chain of reasoning,
                        showing cause(s) and/or effect(s) which is well
                        contextualised. Assessment is balanced and wide
                        ranging showing an awareness of competing
                        arguments/factors, leading to a supported
                        judgement.

                        Requires fully developed, coherent and logical chains
                        of reasoning, showing a range of cause and/or
                        effect(s). A full awareness of the validity and
                        significance of competing arguments/factors leading
                        to a perceptive conclusion that proposes a solution
                        and/or recommendations.

56         Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

           - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Appendix 7: Quantitative skills

Throughout the course of study, students will develop competence in the quantitative skills
listed below. There are opportunities for students to develop these skills throughout the
content and they are required to apply the skills to relevant economic contexts.

The assessment of quantitative skills will constitute a minimum of 10% of the overall marks
for both the International Advanced Subsidiary and the International Advanced Level.

IAS                                              IA2
QS1 Calculate, use and understand ratios,
averages and fractions                           QS1 Calculate, use and understand ratios,
QS2 Calculate, use and understand percentages    averages and fractions
and percentage changes
                                                 QS2 Calculate, use and understand percentages
QS3 Construct and interpret a range of standard  and percentage changes
graphical forms
                                                 QS3 Construct and interpret a range of standard
QS4 Interpret index numbers                      graphical forms
QS5 Calculate cost, revenue, profit and
break-even                                       QS4 Interpret index numbers
-
                                                 QS5 Calculate cost, revenue, profit and
QS7 Interpret values of price and income         break-even
elasticity of demand
                                                 QS6 Calculate investment appraisal outcomes
QS8 Use and interpret quantitative and non-      and interpret results
quantitative information in order to make
decisions                                        QS7 Interpret values of price and income
                                                 elasticity of demand
QS9 Interpret, apply and analyse information in
written, graphical and numerical forms           QS8 Use and interpret quantitative and non-
                                                 quantitative information in order to make
                                                 decisions

                                                 QS9 Interpret, apply and analyse information in
                                                 written, graphical and numerical forms

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  57

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Appendix 8: Glossary of International
Accounting Standards

Below is a comparison between the International Accounting Standards and the UK GAAP
(Generally Accepted Accounting Practice in the UK) terminology.
The assessments will use the International Accounting Standards terminology.

UK GAAP terminology                  International Accounting Standards
Final accounts                       Financial statements

Trading and profit and loss account  Statement of comprehensive income
Sales                                Revenue
Purchases                            Raw materials/ordinary goods purchased
Cost of goods sold                   Cost of sales
Stock                                Inventory
Work in progress                     Work in progress
Gross profit                         Gross profit
Sundry expenses                      Other operating expenses
Sundry income                        Other operating income
Interest receivable                  Investment revenues/finance income
Interest payable                     Finance costs
Net profit                           Profit for the year

Balance sheet                        Statement of financial position

Fixed assets                         Non-current assets
Land and buildings                   Property
Plant and equipment                  Plant and equipment
Investments                          Investment property
Goodwill etc.                        Intangible assets

Current assets                       Current assets
Stock                                Inventory
Stock take                           Inventory count
Debtors                              Trade receivables
Prepayments                          Other receivables
Bank and cash                        Cash

58                   Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                     - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Current liabilities/creditors: amounts  Current liabilities
due within 12 months
                                        Trade payables
Creditors                               Other payables
Accruals                                Bank overdraft and loans
Loans repayable within 12 months

Long-term liabilities/creditors:        Non-current liabilities
amounts falling due after 12 months
                                        Bank (and other) loans
Loans repayable after 12 months         Carry over

Net book value

Capital                                 Capital or equity
Share capital                           Share capital

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -  59

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Appendix 9: Financial statements and
accounting ratios

Students will need to learn the key components of the financial statements and their
associated accounting ratios below.

Statement of                Ratio name               Ratio formula
comprehensive income
                            gross profit margin      gross profit      × 100 %
   revenue                                           _________
- cost of sales             operating profit
= gross profit              margin                   revenue
- other operating expenses
= operating profit          profit for the year      operating profit     × 100 %
                            (net profit) margin      ____________
- interest
= profit for the year                                revenue

      (net profit)                                   profit for the year  × 100 %
                                                     ______________

                                                     revenue

Statement of financial      Ratio name               Ratio formula
position
                            current ratio            current assets
  non-current assets                                 ____________
+ current assets            acid test ratio (liquid
- current liabilities       capital ratio)           current liabilities
- non-current liabilities   capital employed
= net assets                                         current assets - inventory
                            gearing ratio            ____________________
  share capital
+ retained profits                                   current liabilities
= total equity
                                                     non-current liabilities + total equity

                                                     non-current liabilities

                                                     _____________            × 100 %

                                                     capital employed

                            Ratio name               Ratio formula            × 100 %

                            return on capital          operating profit3
                            employed                   _____________
                                                       capital employed4

3 From statement of comprehensive income
4 From statement of financial position

60                          Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business

                            - Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
Appendix 10: Use of calculators

Students may use a calculator in assessments for these qualifications. Centres are
responsible for making sure that calculators used by their students meet the requirements
given in the table below.

Students must be familiar with the requirements before their assessments for these
qualifications.

Calculators must be:                        Calculators must not:

· of a size suitable for use on the desk    · be designed or adapted to offer any of
                                                these facilities:
· either battery or solar powered
                                               o language translators
· free of lids, cases and covers which
    have printed instructions or formulas.     o symbolic algebra manipulation

The student is responsible for the          o symbolic differentiation or integration
following:
                                            o communication with other machines or
· the calculator's power supply                 the internet.

· the calculator's working condition        · be borrowed from another student during
                                                an examination for any reason*
· clearing anything stored in the
    calculator.                             · have retrievable information stored in
                                                them - this includes:

                                            o databanks

                                            o dictionaries

                                            o mathematical formulas

                                            o text.

*An invigilator may give a student a calculator.

Further information can be found in the JCQ documents Instructions for conducting
examinations and Information for candidates for written examinations, available at
www.jcq.org.uk/exams-office.

Sb070917Z:\LT\PD\IALS 2018\9781446912478_IAL_BUSINESS\9781446949573_IAL_BUSINESS.DOCX.1-64/1

Pearson Edexcel International Advanced Subsidiary/Advanced Level in Business -                61

Specification - Issue 1 - September 2017 © Pearson Education Limited 2017
FOR INFORMATION ABOUT EDEXCEL, BTEC OR LCCI QUALIFICATIONS
VISIT QUALIFICATIONS.PEARSON.COM

EDEXCEL IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF PEARSON EDUCATION LIMITED

PEARSON EDUCATION LIMITED. REGISTERED IN ENGLAND AND WALES NO. 872828
REGISTERED OFFICE: 80 STRAND, LONDON WC2R 0RL
VAT REG NO GB 278 537121

GETTY IMAGES: ALEX BELMONLINSKY
